Nine Transitions
............................................. Price Action trading on the Emini
2010 Ù 2012 articles compilation "Cadaver"
1

2

Nine Transitions
............................................. Price Action trading on the Emini

INDEX

1 Introduction .........................

pg 7

- 1.1 Glossary

pg 7

- 1.2 Price Action Trading pg 9

- 1.3 Setup Chart

pg 12

- 1.4 Trading Guide

pg 14

- 1.5 Trading psychology pg 34

2 December 2010 .................

Pg 89

3 2011.......................................

pg 111

4 2012 (Jan Ù Nov)....................... pg 317

http://ninetrans.blogspot.com 3

4

Nine Transitions
............................................. Price Action trading on the Emini
The market could be moving in only three directions at any time: up, down or flat. From there, it could transition to any other or have a continuation in the existing direction. Therefore there are nine possible transitions the price could take.
"Cadaver"
http://ninetrans.blogspot.com 5

6

Introduction

1.1 Glossary

1chbo,1cb

The first break of a channel move. This is usually expected to fail and is a signal to enter in the direction of the channel

1tf,5tf

1 tick failure. Price goes 1 tick beyond prior bar triggering the trade and proceeds to take out stop. Similarly 5tf, 9tf

1PB

The first pullback in a day or the first pullback after 1Rev

1Rev

The first reversal of the day. Also see OR

OR

Opening Reversal, A reversal after a trend move attempt in the first hour.

1L,2L

1 legged move, 2 legged move

A second attempt to reverse a pullback move near the ema. A

A2

second failed attempt to reverse the trend and therefore a continuation signal. If its too far from the ema it may not qualify

to be an A2

A22

A second entry for an A2, taken perhaps because the first signal

required a large stop or had a large overlap.

H1

The first time a bar ticks above the high of a previous bar in a down move. First attempt to reverse a down move.

fH1

The price falls below the bar that gave an H1, thus failing its attempt to reverse the down move.

fH1 MM

In a hard down trend, if the bar that gave an H1 and its previous bar (signal) were weak, the failed H1 is likely to give a measured move from the begin of the move to the failure.

H2

Second time a bar ticks above previous bar in a down move after the H1 and fH1

L1,fL1,L2 Inverse of H1,fH1,H2 in an up move.

Measured move. A 1:1 move expected due to certain price action.

MM

For example, price is likely to go 2 points above a breakout bar

thats 2 points long.

BO

Breakout. Price has moved beyond a price action barrier such as swing high, ema, trendline, etc.

7

BP fBO DP WP TL TCL
G
G2 i, o ii LL, HH mW PB oio, ud TTR
BW
W
W1P

Breakout pullback. Price pulls back often back inside the price action barrier that was broken.
A failed breakout. Most first attempts to breakout fail.
A pullback that gives a long entry after a double bottom or a short entry after a double top
A three legged pullback. This is similar to A2
Trendline. A line connecting swing lows in an up move or swing highs in a down move. Can also be a parallel line drawn to TCL.
A line connecting swing highs in an up move or swing lows in a down move. Can also be a parallel line drawn to the TL
Gap bar. The first bar in a down move whose high is below ema or first bar in an up move whose low is above ema. If this bar is bullish in a bear move, its a buy signal and vice versa.
If the G fill attempt fails, a second G bar is G2. This is a higher probability trade.
inside bar, outside bar
an inside bar inside another inside bar (also iii and so on)
A Lower Low, a Higher High
micro Wedge; a TCL of bars rather than swings
pullback.
Outside inside outside bar reversal, up down bar reversal, etc.
Tight trading range.Overlapping price movement that reverses back and forth after moving a tick or two beyond the previous attempt.
Barb wire. Three or more horizontal bars with at least one being a doji. Similar to TTR.
Wedge. Three pushes up with the third push overshooting a trend channel line or at least touching it. A reversal signal makes it a W reversal
The first pullback that allows an entry in the new direction after a W reversal

8

1.2 Price Action Trading
Stage 1: Bars
The first stage in mastering price action is to know what any kind of bar is. This just not just mean differentiating between a reversal bar and an inside bar but also what the bar means in a given context. For example, you should master various aspects that strengthen and weaken a setup such as:
ñ an up/down trend bar pair is a reversal signal only if its not in mid-range. ñ A doji before a reversal bar greatly weakens the signal. ñ An inside bar needs to have a strong close to be a reversal signal, but a tail may be
acceptable if its a failed breakout of a Trading Range. ñ doji signal bars often work for with-trend trades but fail for counter-trend trades. ñ huge bars are trading ranges
Stage 2: Bar Sequences
Master bar sequences. Most setups are bar sequences so you should be able to recognize them. For example:
ñ 2 legged pullbacks ñ three pushes with TCL OS ñ trend channel overshoots of MTL
In addition, you should be able to expect common bar patterns based on current bar. For example:
ñ large bar could become possible Spike and Channel ñ large bar could be a failed breakout ñ a pullback bar followed by doji could become barb wire. ñ bars suddenly turn tiny and doji-like in a strong trend could be TTR
Stage 3: Market Structure
Market structure takes a bit more experience, but this is the most important. You should be able to keep track of whether the market is trending, is about to break out into a trend from a trading range, etc. You should also be able to determine the kind of move and the type of trading thats successful in this market. Is it a soft trend where you should buy every fL2? Is it a hard trend and you should short every L1? Is the range very tight and every trade is a scalp since every stop will be taken out? Is it a strongly trending market that is likely to run for a long time? Is it a wild and crazy market that's stopping everyone in all directions? The quicker you can recognize these, the faster you can act. Market structure is your filter and overall guide ensuring you dont take trades in the wrong direction. If you like to swing for multiple points, you want to trade with-trend in a strongly trending market. If the market is weak or tight, you can trade both with and counter-trend (with some experience). Market structure mastery also allows you to sit though pullbacks and exit at the right time, maximizing your gains. Until you have mastered this, you will feel helpless in anything but the normal average trends and trading ranges. You will sit helplessly in a hard trend and short your way to the top in a soft trend.
However, even with market structure mastery, you wont be able to enter a setup correctly without mastering Stages 1 and 2. If your entries are stopped out and the market then moves in the direction of your original entry, you have a poor mastery of stage 2.
9

Stage 1 is so fundamental that you need to be a really poor trader to not master this. If you are buying above bear bars and selling below bull bars and many of your entries turn into 1tf and 5tfs you probably need to work on mastering your bars properly.
During trading hours, mark the chart with your read of the Stages above and compare your performance at the end of the day. This will help identify areas that need work and you should pick one or two specific deficiencies and correct them one after another. Most people are unable to fix all problems at once, so don't bother trying it.
Using the 10 week rule, if you have correctly identified items you seek to correct on the chart, you can move on to the next one.
Four trades off nine transitions
The market could be moving in only three directions at any time: up, down or flat. From there, it could transition to any other or have a continuation in the existing direction. Therefore there are nine possible transitions the price could take.
An up to up after a failed down or horizontal move is a trend continuation, an up to down is a trend reversal, the flat to up is a breakout and so on. There is a kind of trade you can enter at each transition, if you could spot it in time.
The complete set would look something like this:
As you can see, when a trending market flattens out, you need to exit your positions and stay out. Many traders make the mistake of also reversing their positions, but that can only be done when the reversal is clear such as a wedge reversal or a failed breakout of the previous extreme after a trend line break.
This means there are only four kinds of trades: Reversals, continuations, breakouts and failed breakouts. If you can master detecting and trading these transitions, you are already on your way to success.
Continuations: Most trending days have two or more continuations. Most continuations are A2, which is a 2 legged pullback to the ema. The simplest way to look at an A2 is the second attempt to end the pullback. As long as any of the bars that make up the pullback are near the ema giving an entry slightly above or below it, you can consider it an A2. Another way to define this is two failed attempts to reverse the trend, i.e. failed L2. Note that if your A2 entry is very far from the ema, you may get a 3rd push which turns into a W pullback to the ema. These should be taken just like they were an A2. In a strong trend, you may have H1s and L1s that work, but new traders should just stick to A2.
Reversals: Obvious reversals are rarer on a given day, but the Wedge reversal is likely to be the most successful. The most important requirement of a Wedge reversal is an obvious overshoot (more than 2t) and especially a second overshoot. It takes some experience to correctly read a good Wedge reversal, but the following signs increase the probability of a W reversal:
10

1. A second overshoot 2. A strong reversal bar or a up/down bar that has no overlap with previous bars or
overlap with the previous swing point 3. A strong entry bar (shaved or small tailed trend bar) 4. The entry bar low is not taken out by more than 1t 5. A one legged move to ema. (A close above the ema may end up giving an A2 long or
short instead of W1P)
If at least three of the above are present, you can take the first higher low for bullish W or first lower high for bear W since that becomes a W1P. If the reversal bar was weak or W entry or W1P signal looks suspicious for example because its a doji or an overlap or large bar, sometimes you get a two legged W1P. The following decrease the chances of a successful W1P.
1. Overshoot is small (a tick or two) and there is only a single overshoot 2. There is an overshoot but it does not look like extreme behavior (W are extreme
behaviors) 3. W signal and entry bars are weak
The above signs of weakness may imply trend termination into trading range or a pullback and resumption. Breakouts and failed Breakouts: Breakouts from a trading range are complex and are the hardest to read correctly, especially because most breakouts fail. However, there are certain signs of impending breakouts:
1. A double bottom pullback at the bottom of the range generally means the market may breakout at the top of the range. Similarly a DP at the top implies market will breakout at the bottom.
2. A breakout failure at one end of the trading range may breakout into a trend on the other end of the range, often giving a breakout pullback on the other end.
3. A W move and breakout to one end of the trading range may give a failed breakout, which in turn breaks out from the other end of the range.
In general, its best to trade a breakout pullback after the breakout is successful. If a breakout does not fail after two or three bars then its more likely to give a breakout pullback.If you are a new trader, I suggest concentrating only on A2 till you have mastered it then move to W1P and then to breakouts and failed breakouts. An exhaustive description of all the above require their own blog posts and I hope to put them here soon.
11

1.3 Setup Chart
Read this first: Four trades off nine transitions

UP UP A2, 1CBO, hH1,G2,BT FLAT BO DOWN W, W1P
BO TRI fBO WBO TT DT/DB
1pb

FLAT TT fBO TT
XT rev bar TTR

DOWN W,W1P BO A2, 1CBO, hL1,G2,BT
BP DP fRev+fA2 1rev

This chart describes all my setups from the nine transitions. When the trend is up, I'm looking for A2 in a normal trend, 1chbo in a channel move, H1 in a hard trend and G2 in a deep pullback. Im also looking to exit and stay out when the trend ends in a Trend termination (TT) move such as a double top, TTR or weak reversal followed by weak A2. If there is a wedge move and reversal, Im looking for W and W1P entries to reverse. Down trend is very similar except all entries are complementary.
When the movement is flat or trading range, Im looking for trend breakouts. usually these are triangle breakouts, expanding triangle breakouts and breakout pullbacks.
If the range is large enough, I may consider fBO trades. These include a reversal bar on breakout, Double bottom pullback and a two or three legged failed breakout (WBO). Often I will not take these trades and simply take one of the breakout on the other side of the range.
TT is not something to trade but rather a sign to exit your trend positions. A double top or double bottom, a TTR move or a reversal and continuation trade that both do not have follow through are the most common trend termination signals.
In addition to the above, I also trade the first reversal of the day and the first pullback of the day at the open, but those are complex topics that deserve their own posts.

12

Two strikes
A decent win rate and a favorable win size/loss size ratio is the key to accumulating profits. A trader with poor win rate is likely to have extremely high number of trades. For one, the moment he is stopped out, he looks to getting in right away and often operates in an emotionally distressed state and is bound to compound mistakes. Ironically, the more he trades, the worse his performance is likely to get. There are some steps a trader needs to take in order to avoid falling into this very common trap. The first is that a trader should look for major turns in direction and on a given day there are unlikely to be more than five. So the question a trader should ask himself is not if he thinks the market will go up over the next bar or two, but if its a major change in direction. The ability to locate these turns require a trader to trade less than he normally would. A trader who trades with-trend off a nonoverlapping signal bar with a strong close near the ema or trendline is likely to be at least 50% successful. So if your success rate is under 50%, the first thing to do is to trade nothing else. The next thing you can do is to adopt a "two strikes" policy. If you lose two trades, you are done for the day. You should also be done for the day if you took five trades total. In the beginning, you may end up finishing your quota in the first half hour after open, but with over time, you will be able to stake out longer and be able to focus on large moves. The chart above is meant to be illustrative but shows how a two strikes policy would work with a -1.5 stop and a +2 target. As seen from the chart above, there is a very good chance you will be stopped at two trades on a large number of days and conversely on some rare occasions, you may get four or five wins. Nearly half the time, it expects a loss on the first trade and nearly three out of four times, a loss on either the first or second trade. Even so, there is an expected value (EV) of about a point accumulating per day. The loss policy above can be abbreviated as 2/5 (two losses out of five maximum). You can try other variations such as 3/6 or multiple contracts and targets or anything else that's suitable to your trading style. Note that positive expected value is a side effect and the main goal here is to improve your ability to consistently take good trades and focus on major moves. Note that on many days, there may be only three or four trades, so don't be surprised if you take in less than the EV. Note that the -1.5 stop is tuned for my proven setups. Other setups may need a wider stop but your stop should not be larger than your target. A wider stop is likely to negatively impact your EV, so trades with wider stops should have a very large EV (such as 1PB or W1P).
13

1.4 Trading Guide
So you want to be a trader. Here is a list of things you need before you can get going.
1. A trading account 2. Trading software that allows SIM trading 3. A trading style 4. Some basic setups 5. A trading plan 6. Starting Capital
Once you find a good futures broker, you should be able to open an account and get a trading platform for a small amount of money. The first thing you do is to trade for a while on a simulator (SIM). This will allow you to learn how to place orders and move your stops while make all your silly mistakes like buying instead of selling, entering the incorrect quantity and get it over with without losing any money. Trading on SIM also allows you to watch the market move and get a feel for price action. Note that the market is like a very complex diamond and you have to trade for a couple of years before you see most of its faces. Even then, you haven't seen them all. A trading style is different from how you read the market. Its about how you place your entry orders, take your profits and place your stops. Price action trading is fairly straight forward this way, since your entries, exits and stops are very well defined. Your long entry is 1 tick above the signal bar, stop is 1 tick below and your target is 4 ticks or more above your entry. This predefined ruleset make it easy to follow for beginners. I have extensively discussed various setups in my blog. Al Brooks' work is very good place to get more information regarding price action. A trading plan such as mine is very important to have and follow. The most important take away from this is that trading is a mental skill you work on and develop and once you get good at trading SIM (zero real contracts), you keep increasing the contract size slowly and thus overcome emotional barriers that come naturally when real money is at stake. Once you graduate from SIM to real money, always know that you will lose in the beginning. This is normal. You need to be able to be in the game for a while, so you need to allocate some real capital. One way to not bankrupt yourself early is to have daily, weekly and monthly loss limits. Once you hit the loss limit, switch to SIM trading. This allows you to have a yearly budget for trading and keeps you in the game allowing you to improve
14

The rule of ten: A trading plan
You are a rank beginner and you have no idea how to start trading. This is my advice on how to get started. The first step is to trade on SIM only until you unlock the following achievements.
The rule of ten
1. At least 10 points every week 2. For 10 consecutive weeks 3. With at least 10 days of no losing trades 4. At least 10 consecutive winning days 5. Biggest losing day at most half of average winning day (i.e. if your average winning
day is +2, your max loss day should be -1)
All the above proves is that your technique is right. You should now start trading real money. You will probably start to lose money right away. That's ok, because you know that your technique is right and you only need to work on your emotions. If you are entering a lot more trades per day than you would mark on the chart at the end of day, then you have to work on your emotions. Eagerness and impatience are signs of a losing inexperienced trader. Caution and patience are signs of an experienced winning trader. When you feel any urgency to enter a trade mark that on your chart and see how it went at the end of the day.
My best trades are A2, W1P, DP and fBO. You should start with A2 and stick to A2 only. Why? Because trying to trade W1P may trick you into seeing reversals everywhere. Similarly DP and fBO may trick you into seeing breakouts and failed breakouts everywhere. With A2, there is a very good chance the trend is going to continue.
Trading SIM is like juggling 4 flaming knives while riding a unicycle. Trading real money is the same, except a monkey sitting on your head and messing up your act. So the first thing you do is juggle only one flaming knife. A small one. That's A2. The next thing you do is get off the unicycle and stand on firm ground. That's basically watching only one chart, either the regular trading hours or 24 hour chart and nothing more. There really is not much you can do about the monkey, just hope he gets older and calmer with time.
Once you consistently make money with A2 and satisfy the rule of 10 with real money, add W1P only to SIM until rule of 10 is unlocked for it. Then you can trade both with real money. Then you can add DP to rule of 10 and finally fBO.
At this point you should be catching most of the big moves of any day, dont worry about any small moves you have missed. You can't hope to catch every move with high probability.
Finally you can choose to add the following: failed first channel breakout, G2, 1st pullback of the day, first reversal of the day, L1 and H1 on hard trends and expanding triangle.
Note that having a lot of trades in your toolbox is not the important factor. What is much more important is how consistent you are with any given trade.
15

1.5 Price Action Basics
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2011
Price Action Basics I - Bar selection
The very first thing to learn about price action trading is signal bar selection. If you do nothing else but trade every well formed bar, you will make money on most days. If you trade well-formed bars only with-trend, you will make money consistently. Enter above a bull signal bar with a stop below it and vice-versa for bear bar. If the bar is too large or too small or has lots of overlap, use a money stop of 8 ticks. The indicator above plots a red dot above any reasonable bear bar and a blue dot below any reasonable bull bar. Naturally, this means it misses some of my important setups such as OR/1Rev at b3 and possibly some 1PB setups. If you did nothing but trade these bars, most of your trades would be wins. Your losses would only be from b45-47 chop and possibly b74 L1. If you swung any contracts for any of your previous trades, you probably earned money overall. Lets add some common sense to the mix and eliminate counter-trend trades and H1/L1 against strong moves. This gives only b45 as a losing trade of the day. Add a second common sense rule and do not take shallow H1/L1 with-trend unless its close to ema or trendline and you already have an all-winner day.
16

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011
Price Action Basics II - Reversals and pullbacks in trends
When the market is in a trend move, it will continue to be in the trend until there is a very strong overshoot or a very clear trendline break. When in a trend, every counter-trend signal is probably a trap and you should ignore it and wait for its failure. Even with the very clear and obvious W at b53 after an obvious buy climax, the risk of failure is high. An obnoxious overshoot such as b11 or an obvious trendline break such as b74-79 and a successful test of the extreme is necessary before any counter-trend trades are attempted. A failed L2 (b13,15) after a bullish reversal (b11) is a strong confirmation of the reversal and the next buy signal is usually good for a swing. The W entry is the only counter-trend trade you ever need to take since it usually gives a confirmation and a with trend W1P right after. Every reversal signal in a trend is probably a pullback and nothing more until counter strength is demonstrated. You should look for with-trend signals near the ema or trend line. Ignore signals far away from them (b30,46,52) since they imply possibly another leg in the pullback.
17

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
Price action Basics III - 1st Reversal or Opening Reversal
When the day opens, one option is to treat the first bar as a trading range and watch for fBO and BP of b1. If the BO or fBO looks compelling, it may lead to a trend and you should take a strong signal bar such as b8 or b19. The larger the distance to the other extreme of the day, the higher the chances of a trend developing. Therefore, its perfectly fine to ignore something like b3 and wait for a break above the HOD (b1 at this point) and wait for a failure or BP. When the move is possibly a trend move (b8-b19), no matter how small, its reversal is a 1Rev and is likely to lead to the primary move of the day. Since 1Revs can fail, conservative traders can take a 1PB if the fBO or BO succeeds. In other words buy only the HL after a bullish reversal and a LH after a bearish reversal. Today's 1PB would be b24, which is not well formed, so its acceptable to skip it and wait for the next setup. You should only take withprimary trend setups until the other extreme of the day is taken out. This strategy works for almost any day except tight trading ranges with tiny bars. On those days, very few things work and price action entries have a high failure rate, so its best to skip trading if the range of the first hour or two is very small, especially if there was no gap on open.
18

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011
Price Action Basics IV: Trading ranges, Trends, fBOs and BPs
A breakout from a trading range is an attempt to create a trend and its failure is a move back into the trading range. A successful breakout leads to a trend. Similarly, a successful failure to resume the trend leads to a trading range. Today, b15 and b28 were failures to resume the trend and b67 was a successful resumption of the trend. After every breakout, the trader needs to decide if he will fade the breakout or enter with the breakout on a pullback. In general, when in a trading range, a trade on the failure of the breakout is more likely to succeed and certain important signs are needed to trade with the breakout. The signs are:
1. Breakout is strong (i.e., half or more of the breakout bar is beyond the break point) 2. Strong close 3. Second attempt to breakout 4. Poor attempt to fail the breakout
19

Lets look at these one by one:
1. Strong breakout: b27 and b67 were both very strong breakout bars, but b67 was more than halfway above the break point. Even though b27 was less than halfway out, there was a good chance that a 2 or 3 legged pullback could give a second attempt up. On the other hand b10 was a weak breakout with weak close.
2. Strong close: A strong close beyond the breakout point indicates that there were insufficient fade orders at the break point. A weak close followed by a deep pullback (such as b29-46) indicates possible failure of the breakout. A weak close such as b10 indicates fade orders were waiting and a failed second attempt (b15) is likely to seek the other end of the range.
3. Second attempt: Second attempts are stronger than first attempts and second attempts of strong closes usually are very successful. An fBO (b28) that fails to take out the other end of the range (b15 low) should be treated like a deep pullback and is a possible trend break (HL after HH). This is especially true after a fL2 such as the one at b50.
4. Poor attempt to fail the breakout: b11 and b15 are strong attempts to fail the breakout. Usually, when the first failure is pronounced (b11,12), the second will usually go much further (b15-b27). If the bar after the breakout bar is a reversal or inside bar with a strong close such as b28, there is a high probability of at least 2 legs down, possibly deep. If the attempt to fail the breakout is poor such as b67, and it does not trigger, the chances are very high that the price will seek a measured move of the prior range (b28-45 met at b79).
20

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2011
Price Action Basics V: The Open Gaps
The open is a very complex set of topics and gap opens are an important source of information about the day's price action. Occasionally, the market opens very near to the close of the prior day (less than one average bar). This usually can be traded as if there was no gap and the open is simply continuation of the prior day's price action. Usually, the open almost always is a few bar lengths away from the close of the prior day. This is a small gap and usually this acts like a breakout or a trendline break. Usually, the market attempts to close small gaps giving either a pullback from the gap breakout or re-test after the gap trendline break. Sometimes small gaps will extend before closing and this will lead to a protracted trend after reversal. When a small gap extends, you usually have no idea how far it will go but you always know that the reversal will test the close of the prior day. Gaps that give an open within the body of the prior day, especially mid-body are suspect. No matter which way they trend, they are likely to reverse sometime within the day. In other words, most days are likely to trend trying to close the gap. Naturally, if it tries to close the gap in two or three attempts and fails, the market will usually give a large trend in the opposite direction. Keeping the above in mind is very important to determine 1Rev correctly. The last case is the large gap (about a day's range). A large gap can lead to a large trend if it tries to close the gap. If it tries to extend the gap, it often behaves like a spike and channel with the gap as a spike. This often means its a soft-trend day. A large gap down can give a hard trend if it tries to widen the gap. However, a large gap simply gives a trading range, which can lead to a gap closure late in the day (as in today's chart). A good metric for the trendiness of a large gap is the first bar, which if its a average sized trend bar is likely to lead to a large trend day. A doji or other poor bar such as today's b1 usually indicates a poor AM trend.Determining the likely primary direction of the day improves your chances of a successful 1Rev and 1PB entry, which in turn allows you to swing for larger number of points and increases your profitability.
21

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2011
Price Action Basics VI - The first bar
According to Al Brooks, the first bar represents the day in a nutshell on most days. As you can see, today that was not true. My modification is that the first one or two bars represents the AM movement. If the first couple of bars are strong trend bars in the same direction, there is a good chance of a trend move (either with or against the first two bars). If the first bar is a trading range type of bar or the first two bars are opposite colored and overlap (even though they are trend bars), then the market is forming an opening range rather than an opening trend. The first bar is special, because it is the only bar thats guaranteed to give both a new HOD and LOD. From this point on, you can trade fBOs and BP of b1 and continue with every new HOD and LOD. A bar with tails such as b1 today should be considered a small trading range. Such an opening often leads to an expanding triangle open, which essentially is a series of fBO of every new high and low until one of them gives a two or three legged LH (such as b30) or HL and begins a trend move. Trend bars on open show energy and will often lead to an AM trend. Those trends will often reverse and lead to a prolonged trend that could last all day A reversal bar on open will often give a sharp move that will turn around and take out the other end of b1. This is especially true if the reversal bar is in the wrong place, i.e., mid-range or a bull reversal bar above a small gap, etc. Doji b1 can give a small fBO on one end of the bar followed by a prolonged move when the other side of the bar breaks out. But it can also lead to BW open. Regardless, the size and form of b1 is only a guide and should not be relied upon religiously. There are various edge cases that are too numerous to list and can only be mastered with experience. The right way to approach b1 is as if its a trading range and trade it as if its a small trading range. That is to say, if there is a strong breakout, enter on a pullback and if there is a weak breakout, fade the breakout. Remember that fBO of small ranges is usually not worth the trouble and that applies to b1 as well.
22

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
Price Action Basics VII - The Initial trend, 1Rev and 1PB
After zero or many fBOs off the first bar of the day, the market may attempt to trend. This is called the initial trend and if its strong, it may eventually persist till the end of the day. However, on most days, there will be an attempt to reverse the trend. If b4 was the initial trend attempt, then b5 is its reversal. On the other hand b4,5 could simply be another fBO and b5 to b8 could be the initial trend. b9 would then be the first attempt to reverse the trend. If this attempt is feeble, then it will fail and turn into the first pullback of the trend or 1PB. Often the protective stop above 1PB is not violated for the rest of the day (including today). This makes 1PB often the best swing entry of the day. For practical reasons, the first deep pullback is usually a better swing candidate. The W at b29 or the W1P at b36 make excellent 1PB entries and are often the best practical swing entries of the day. This is because a protective stop of a deep pullback is less likely to be taken out before yielding a swing profit and a deep pullback is easier to enter than a one bar pullback such as b9.Today, there was an excellent PM move, but on many days, the AM trend is the only large move and the lunch and post-lunch hours do not yield any large moves unencumbered by choppy movement and stop runs. This is why mastering the 1PB entry is crucial to profitability.
23

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2011
Price Action Basics VIII - The opening range and its measured move.
On some days, there is no clear initial trend and the first few bars of the day are simply a trading range. Two up and two down moves that don't go too far from the open make an opening range. On many days there will be no successful breakout of the range and the market will oscillate between the bounds of the range and every breakout attempt will fail. When the market fails to break out twice (b11 and b27), it normally tests the other end (b61). However, when the market does breakout successfully, it will often reach the measured move of the opening range. A three push failure (b3,11,27) on one end of the TR often results in the successful break on the other side. A simple but fairly successful way to trade these moves is to take the first HL long and the first LH short of the day as long as they are close to the prior swing and hold till the other end is taken out. For example, you would buy above b19 and sell below b37 or b53. A 2 legged pullback after a breakout(b69) is possibly the first A2 in a new trend and is a high probability trade.
24

MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2011
Price Action Basics IX - Scalp and swing entries
A scalp is a pre-defined amount of profit that the user expects to take, regardless of the parameters of the trade. ES traders often have one point as their scalp size, forex traders have 10 pips and so on. Technically, the smallest possible scalp is 1 tick in futures and 0.01 in stocks. In general a scalp is around the same size as the risk (distance from entry to stop). Traders who enter on stops above signal bars need to adjust their trading to resize their scalp size with changes in signal bar size. A swing is a large undetermined move many times the size of the original risk. Swing entries are essential to be a profitable trader since scalp entries are likely to be breakeven at best for the new trader. Not all entries are swingable. To be swingable, you should have a reasonable expectation that the next pullback will not take out your breakeven stop. For example, today b23 or even b26 was not a swing setup, only b30 was. Only trend continuation setups (i.e., setups that are likely to continue the trend to a new extreme are swingable. The best swingable setups are: 1PB, A2, W1P. BPs and fBOs in particular are not usually swingable. Usually, second attempts, failures (such as the 1tf on b30), the first pullback in a new trend are swingable. You do not need to bother adding a runner to your trade unless you expect the trade to be swingable. Entering only on swingable trades highly improves your win rate in addition to your profit per trade. Always try to correctly read if a setup us also a swing setup before placing your trade. large tails signal bar, bars of the wrong color, outside bars or otherwise poorly formed bars carry a high risk of pullback or failure and should not be swing entries.
25

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2011
Price Action Basics X - More than bars
As I've posted many times before, you can trade very well by focusing on good bars and common sense. However, bars do not always tell you the full story. The context of each bar and the market's current place in the nine transitions is very important to distinguish between a strong and a weak bar. For example, b13 and b72 were overlapped bars and the indicator filtered them out. However, b8-13 represented a 2 legged pullback after a strong breakout and should work like a breakout pullback. Similarly, b72 was a second HL after a second HH and is a trend break. Both bars worked very well for swing entries. On the other hand, b19 despite being a strong inside bar on a W move up gave a pullback that took out break-even stops while b30, despite being a doji bar let the swing position advance unmolested to +8 points. The reason is simple. At b19, we were still in a bull trend and b22 was seen as a deep pullback and attracted buyers. b30 on the other hand was 3 pushes to a LH after the TL break (b19-22) and attracted sellers. b51 was a decent inside bar, but it came after a 3 push breakout of the trading range. Although the trade worked on this instance, its a low probability trade since a 3 push BO of the trading range is likely to fail and seek the other end of the trading range. While bars filter out bad entries, if your aim is to take very few trades that swing for a lot of points, you need to be able to read the nine transitions fluently to make the optimal decisions. Never swing trades because you don't want to be left out of a large move based on just one bar. When in doubt, take only deep pullbacks near support such as ema, trendline or prior swings.
26

FRIDAY, AUGUST 12, 2011
Trading plan: Trading Range day
Since most trading days are trading range days, its essential to have a plan to trade them well. Identifying a trading range day is a lot easier: If its not a trend day, it's very likely to be a trading range day. Rather than go with the default, I use a simpler heuristic. After the first two up and down moves (including any gaps), if you are back where you started from, its likely to be a trading range day. For example, today the first move up was the gap and the bull trend bar b1 and the second move down was b8. At this point, you are back where you started, so this is likely to be a trading range day with b1-b8 as the opening range. On a trading range day, the first few bars are likely to have a lot of overlaps and tails, preventing a clear signal bar. One way around this is to trade a smaller timeframe such as the 3m chart as shown here. The entries are mid-bar on the 5m chart and do not really make much sense but are much clearer on the 3m chart. Once the first hour or so is complete, you should no longer look at the 3m chart since the setups there are likely to be of lower probability of success. Trading range days often have two legged moves in each direction followed by two legged moves in another without really moving too far from the range. Most swing entries are likely to fail and your breakeven stop is likely to be hit. So a valid plan is to take every two legged move and exit on the second push. For example, if you sold 3m b2 on the chart shown to the left, you would exit when the second push ended either on strength at the close of 3m b9 or when a bar ticks beyond a prior bar (above 3m b14).
27

However, I avoid trading this way, simply because I prefer larger moves. A viable plan is to buy near the low of the range and sell near the high of the range. Simply stated, trade the failed breakouts of the range and try to hold it till the other end of the range is tested. So for example, the 5m b32 gave a failed breakout of the HOD b1. The right approach is to short this and try to hold it till b9 low is tested.
To constrain yourself to truly taking trades only near the ends of the trading range, divide the opening range into three parts and mark out the central part. Take only buy signals below it and sell signals above it. Hold it till the price crosses to the other side (b27) or attempts to bounce back a second time (b50). Ignore all entries that would take place in the center. This should allow you to swing even on a trading range day and avoid most of the choppy entries. When a new lod or hod (b30) extends the range, adjust your box accordingly.
Using this system, you would have only taken the long above b17 and the shorts below b32 and b56. These also happen to be the best swingable trades today. Note that this may not work on TTR days, when the range of the day is 5 points or less. TTR days are best not traded at all, since any trade is low probability.
Just as you stop trading trends when the trend terminates into a trading range, you need to stop trading a range when it breaks into a trend. Take the first plausible pullback and ride the new trend and avoid trying to insist it to turn back into the trading range. Along with the Trading plan: Trend days, you have 90% of the days covered. The remaining trends are hard trends, soft trends, Spike and channel and TTRs. Recognizing these and trading them correctly is the key to successful trading.
28

THURSDAY, AUGUST 11, 2011
Trading plan: Trend day
Trading on trend days is relatively easy and trading only on trend days and sitting on the sidelines on the rest of the days is a viable trading plan. The only issue is that trend days occur infrequently (about 20% of trading days) but on sharp moves on the daily chart, trend days can occur a lot more. The first step is to identify a trend day. Overall there are some common attributes but these do not automatically guarantee a trend day.
ñ A large gap (beyond the range of the prior day) and a large opening bar that widens the gap
ñ A large gap that fails to close in a 2 or 3 legged move ñ A small gap that reverses the high, low or close of prior day ñ A small gap that moves to ema and reverses ñ First 3 or 4 bars make a trend move
29

In all the above, you can simply take the 1st pullback and swing for the rest of the day. The 1st reversal (b5 or b6) and the 1st pullback (b9) are often very poor bars so a conservative trader may simply wait for the first 2 legged pullback. On many days this means missing a large portion of the AM move but a 2L pb is far easier to enter. The main thing to watch out for in a 2 legged pullback is the quality of the signal bar. Often the first signal bar is a trap. For example b24 was an outside bar and b33 was a doji. b47 had a tail on the entry side, was away from the ema and was strongly overlapped by prior bars. In such cases, you should simply wait for the next signal. You will know your entry is correct when your signal bar is strong (b37) and after it closes, the breakeven stop at your entry price will not be hit. You should always be on the watch for possible trend terminations such as a double top, W (b75), TTR or a trendline break. After this point, there may be no more A2s. Once you can trade trend days adding trading range days is easier. On the setup chart most setups are in trend moves. In trading ranges there are basically only breakouts and failed breakouts and those take a lot more experience to trade profitably. You can be a profitable trader without ever trading trading ranges if you are able to sit out on 80% days.
30

WEDNESDAY, JULY 27, 2011
Hard trend identification and trading
Hard trends are trends that begin strong and carry strong for many bars. This means minimal pullbacks and large moves. Such days are hard to trade for a few reasons. The first is they are comparatively rare, so the trader has no experience with it. Second, 2 legged pullbacks and pullbacks to ema are rare, and due to the large distance to the ema, a pullback to the ema is strong enough to appear to be a mini trend, possibly a reversal. The third and most important reason is that hard trends rarely reverse. They may break and go into a trading range or turn into a channel but reversals are rare and they almost always require a couple of hours in a trading range or TTR first. The first clue that its a hard trend day is a large gap and an open beyond the range of the previous day. The second clue is a strong 1st bar. The first bar cannot be very large (2 to 3 points is ideal) or it could act as a trading range or turn into a spike and channel. The last clue is that any attempt to create a pullback turns into a doji or inside bar. So by b4, you should have identified a hard trend. Trading hard trends is very simple yet hard to do. You can short below any bar that has a shaved or a 1t tail with a stop above that bar. So other than large bars like b8 (which give poor risk/reward), very few strong closes would disappoint. When a hard trend is broken such as by the move from b16-25, the trend has ended and will either enter a trading range or channel. Today, we channelled (b28-50) and then had a BO attempt that failed and gave a second hard leg down. Often the hard trend break will simply channel till the end of the day, without any easy swing entries. This is why its important to enter early in the AM and swing some as far as possible.
31

THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011
Correctly trading a soft trend
The first step in trading a soft trend is to correctly identify it. Other than the first pullback, which can be deep, a soft trend's distinguishing feature is that pullbacks go only one or two ticks below a previous bar and usually fail to close below the previous bar. The second distinguishing feature is that counter-trend trades rarely succeed since most pullbacks overall do not go more than 4 or 5 ticks below the low of any bar. The big difference between a hard trend and a soft trend is that in a soft trend, both pullbacks and breakouts do not go far for each swing. Both hard and soft trends are traded the same way. In the direction of the trend only. By bar 24 or so it was obvious that today was a soft trend and the correct way to trade this is to buy above any bar with at least 2t body (regardless of color) after an L2 (failed L2 or fL2 entry). In the chart above, the red dots represent L1 and the blue dots represent L2. If you correctly enter your trades, none of your breakeven stops should be taken out as illustrated by the dotted lines. Entering above a doji bar or overlap usually means sitting through a pullback as with b47 and should be avoided. Since your exits very closely map to your next entry, many folks will simply let it ride till end of day. This is usually takes experience not to get shaken out at the next pullback but its something a trader should try at least with 1 contract.
32

FRIDAY, JULY 1, 2011
Spike and Channel day
Good traders know the rules, while great traders also know the exceptions to these rules. One of the exceptions to trading barbwire is entering on shallow pullbacks in a very strong soft trend. Normally, I prefer deep pullbacks because they provide the best opportunity for a swing entry. However on a Spike and Channel (SC) day, its best to hold as long as you can. When the spike is strong (entry bar to 1st pullback, b4-b7) and the pullback is shallow (b8-10, about 1/3 of the large bar), there is a very good chance of a SC day. The stronger the spike and the shallower the pullback, the higher the chances of a channel running to the end of the day. If you entered before the spike, it makes perfect sense to take out most of your profits near the top of the spike and optionally keep one runner to the end of the day. If you missed the breakout, you should enter on the first 2 legged pb (b10 or b20). SC days are often soft trends and give small bars and very tiny pullbacks. Typically pullbacks are only a tick or two below the previous bars. This is one of the few opportunities to buy the low of any bar that would be L2 on limit. Once your are in, you should hold as long as there is no close below the ema. Note that technically almost every pullback is barbwire in a soft trend and you can buy above every failed L2 (b20,b29,b40) if you are not comfortable buying limit on the L2 breakout.
33

1.6 Trading Psychology
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2011
Developing your trading skills
Having a trading plan and having a list of best setups does not guarantee trading success. Practically everyone knows common setups such as entering near ema or trendline in a trend or fading breakouts in a trading range. Yet most people lose money trading. The reason is that learning to trade is not like memorizing a phone number, but rather like learning to swim. You can read all you want about various swimming styles and how your arm should cut into the water at the correct angle, but once you jump into the water, you may come close to drowning the first few times. Trading the same few setups repeatedly is a far better trainer than doing everything you may have heard of or read about. Even if the best trader in the world tells you his best secret, you will still lose money until you have traded the setup often enough to master it. The setup is irrelevant. Your practice and mastery of it are far more important. Learning to trade is about working on yourself, not about gaining some magical secret that will make you rich. Some people are just not cut for trading and will ultimately give up or go broke. The mindset needed to be a trader can be developed by practice, but for some its part of their very nature. The following characteristics define a good trader:
ñ An appetite for risk ñ A tolerance to loss ñ An understanding of probability
An appetite for risk does not mean you love gambling. Risk means you are able to put something on the line to get something of higher value. When you fly on a plane, you are at a tiny risk of killing yourself. However, the risk even though severe is low enough that it does not bother you and the reward is high enough that you are willing to take it. The first time when you board a plane, it may have caused some excitement and terror but flying repeatedly removes the emotional element of air travel. In the trading world, your risk is the distance between your entry and stop. It is smaller, but much more probable. You should be willing to lose that much without undergoing grievous emotional stress. If you are very risk averse, you will ultimately fail in trading. You will have periods in your trading life where you have periods of extended successes and extended losses. A tolerance for loss means more than just being able to bear it. It means you have planned for this in your trading plan by perhaps having a second job or sufficient money put away from your good years. You should be able to go back to your notes and read them and maybe switch to to SIM trading for a few weeks until you get your mojo back. All setups no matter how good will occasionally fail, and sometimes they will fail repeatedly. You need to understand that the risk you take and the reward you expect will pay off eventually and repeated wins and losses are to be expected. If they are causing you distress, you need to back off and switch to SIM trading. When you are distressed, you are on tilt and are more likely to blow your account.
34

The relationship between risk and probability is this: reward * probability > risk OR reward > risk / probability So if your winning percentage is 50%, and you are expecting to make 4 ticks, your risk needs to be less than 2t. Another way to look at this is that if your winning percentage is 50% and your risk is 8 ticks, you need to make at least 16 ticks to just break even. This is one reason I stopped taking any entry that is unlikely to give me at least 4 points. As you work on your winning percentage, you can take trades with smaller expected moves. Once you understand this math, you can trade with confidence knowing that eventually you will be profitable as long as you follow this simple rule. To summarize: Trading is a skill you acquire and you practice is key. Start slow and small and work your way to success.
35

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
Fewer, better trades.
One of the biggest errors for new traders is overtrading. Overtrading will eat away at your profitable trades and overall prevent you from being consistent. One of the first goals of a trader should be to reduce the number of trades taken per day to about five. Think about this: How many major directional changes do you expect in a day? Reduction in the number of trades allows you to focus on larger moves instead of flip-flopping on every other bar. If you are a new trader, this will also help in limiting your losses. The first step you need to take is to eliminate limit entries. There are some legitimate limit entries in price action trading, but trying to save two ticks should not be one of them. The skill level of market reading necessary to be able to consistently win at limit entries is very high and I am not too proud to admit that I'm not there yet. If you want to trade limits, remember that you should be entering only on bar closes and not where you fantasize the price may turn mid-bar. The second step you need to take is to only enter on signal bars with a strong close and little overlap. The only exception to this is a 1Rev at ema, 1PB and any with-trend entry on a soft-trend day. If your strong signal bar does not trigger, let it go. Even if it gives a strong inside bar with an equally strong close, at this point its in overlap. The only exception to this rule is a FF after a large move. The last step is to only trade proven setups such as A2, W1P and so on. "I think this will move up now" is not a proven trade. You may have noticed patterns that look reliable but they may not be tradable for various reasons. You should first attempt to trade them on SIM and then try with small size about 100 times before you can add them to your proven list.
36

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
Fire and forget
One of the reasons traders overtrade is that their sense of market direction is focused on the small movements. A second reason is that they become distressed and doubt their own entries as soon as the market moves against them. They may often reverse their positions with every bar or every other bar. The right thing to do is to make a note of the kind of setup and let the market take you out. If your trade fails, it will take you out by hitting your stop and if its successful, it will take you out by reaching your targets. This will give you an accurate measure of what kind of entries you have mastered and what you need to work on. If you are a trader who focuses on swing entries only, you have the luxury of having a very small stop (of say -1.5 points on the ES). For example on today's chart, short below b1 required a 7t stop but entires on bars b4 (1PB), b17 (W), b47 (fBO) needed very small stops. These setups are usually the ones that run for a large number of points, so do not be upset if your stop is taken out; it means a larger stop would have probably been taken out in any case. 1Rev and 1PB may need larger stops, but -2 points usually suffice. Most trading platforms support OCO orders where you can set stops and targets to cancel each other. Once you set an order forget about it and wait for the next setup. If the next setup is in the opposite direction to the position you are in, close out your position and enter a new order. This way, you stop focusing on profit and loss and focus on bars instead.
37

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 2011
Greed
Traders should not be ashamed to admit that greed is probably what motivated a lot of us to get into trading. After all, there is the promise of easy money or rather, lots of easy money that we can gain by trading. Greed may be good, but it will force the trader to make many mistakes. One of the worst mistakes a trader can make is entering on a poor setup because "this could take off from here". You are afraid to be left out. This brings us to our first realization: Greed is just fear thats not immediate. However, when you do get in on the poor setup, either because the signal bar was poor or because the pullback was too shallow or any other reason, you probably entered at a poor price point and a possible pullback will take out your stop unless you use a wide stop. From this we infer: Greed forces us to enter on a large risk Often, even a large stop could be hit and you may resort to loosening your stop, which of course can still be hit so you end up taking a stop much larger than your profit expectation. A stop placement on entry is a statement that if the entry is correct, the price should never touch the stop. If you loosen stops habitually, you are not really trading with stops. Therefore, Greed forces us to disregard our stops Some traders when faced with a wide stop will add on at the worse price so that they have a better chance of breaking even and a tighter net stop. This means that Greed forces us to throw good money after bad. Ideally, you want to be very choosy about where you enter and understand that success lies in consistency (steady, higher percentage of wins) rather than depending on any one trade "taking off". The key to this is to take strong bars on deep pullbacks or at the ends of a trading range. However, if you do enter on a poor bar and it does not take off, remember that the first loss is the best loss. Take your loss and wait for the next setup. Refusing to accept being wrong and replaying the losing scenarios described above is the quickest way to a blown account. "Be fearful when others are greedy" is a simplification. Fear is equally unproductive. The correct antidote to greed is caution. When you feel an urgency to enter, do not enter unless the signal is good and risk is acceptable. Do not fret about letting a big mover pass you by. There is always another trade with a better signal in the very near future. Once you enter, let the trade fail if it needs to. You will never know what trades you are capable of reading and entering correctly if you don't let the market stop you out.
38

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2011
Fear
Being stopped out several times will wreck your confidence and the trader may turn into a victim of fear. Fear is always an immediate emotion and will paralyze you and prevent you from entering viable setups. Often very good setups will move immediately after triggering and your hesitation will cause you to miss out. Fear will make you miss out on many solid trades.
Since good setups will often give a strong entry bar and the entry bar usually grows very quickly after the trade is triggered, you may curse yourself and enter mid-bar, a few ticks or a point above your ideal entry. This also means your risk is now larger by a point or so. This means fear forces you to enter on a large risk.
With a few exceptions a slight pullback after an entry trigger is a normal event and mid-bar entry may cause your stop to be taken out. A trader stricken with fear is unlikely to loosen the stop or add-on (unlike the greed stricken trader) but would probably reverse at the stop. Fear will cause you to be pushed around by every pullback and strong move the market makes.
Reversing every two or three bars will destroy any confidence you still have left in your ability to read market direction and you will get chopped up. Unlike the greedy trader who's account is killed by few large losses, the fearful trader's account dies by a thousand small cuts. If you are fear stricken, you should never reverse a position. A loss for a fearful trader puts him "on tilt" and he is likely to make more mistakes if he continues to trade for the rest of the day. Fear is rather hard to overcome and the only way out is to realize that every setup has a certain percentage of wins and the remainder are bound to be losses. Some losses will be clustered close enough that it will appear that you have lost your ability to trade that setup. The best approach is to stop trading for a certain number of bars after a loss and stop trading after a certain number of losing trades for the rest of the day. The knowledge that your losses are limited per day in the worst case is a stabilizing force on your psyche.
"Be greedy when others are fearful" is easy to say but impossible to practice since you are the fearful one. The antidote to fear is risk management. Once you understand and accept the maximum losses per trade and per day, you already know how much you will lose in the worst case for any given period of time. If this is something you have already accepted as the cost of trading or learning to trade, fear will be much more manageable.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2011
Impatience
A key requirement to be a successful trader is patience. Even very experienced traders will admit that their trading would improve if they work on their patience.
New traders are impatient and and long to be in a trade and until they take a position tend to see every tick as loss of opportunity. Once they are in, they are very impatient and want the trade to work right away and take them to profit. The moment they are out of a trade whether due to hitting a target or being stopped out, they want to be in again. Therefore, impatience makes traders overtrade.
39

Impatience, combined with greed and fear will force traders to have impaired judgement and results in inconsistent performance. Its very unlikely that a trader who is entering and exiting a trade every two or three bars to have a high success rate. Even a high success rate can be neutralized by a couple of poor trades if you focus only on small moves.
Patience for a trader, is being able to do nothing for hours while waiting for a proven setup o form and when it does appear, to act on quickly. After entry the trader should not exit as long as the stop is not taken out unless a setup in the opposite direction sets up and is triggered. The trade should terminate either by reaching a target or being stopped out. Patience and confidence in the setup will enable you to take larger profits.
Impatience is addressed by focusing on large moves. Looking for a large swing move will check your impulse to be in a trade since there are a small number of large moves in a trading day. Holding at least a small portion for a swing will also satisfy your need to be part of a move without having to re-enter every few bars.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2011
Discipline
Discipline is the ability to stick to your long term goals by successfully ignoring short term temptations. You probably already know if you have a modicum of self-discipline. Are you successfully able to stick to a diet or exercise regime? Are you a person who can stick to a decision to make a permanent change to your life such as waking up at 5:00 AM every weekday or to quit smoking cold turkey?
Most people would stop and wonder here and that means no. Discipline, like muscle strength needs to be trained and built upon and will atrophy when you stop working on it.
For a trader, discipline is the ability to stick to a plan and execute only that plan. For example, let us take a very simple trading plan: Trade the first two-legged HL or LH of the day with a stop loss and profit target of +2 points each. You could add an additional requirement of the entry side tail being 2 ticks or less.
If you want to follow this trading plan, you would wait for a two legged HL and buy above any bull bar with a 2 point stop and target. Similarly, you would wait for a two legged LH and sell below any bear bar. If the pattern does not trigger and turns into a HH or LL, you no longer take the trade and do no trade for the rest of the day (unless you have another setup in your plan).
On the other hand, if it does trigger there are only three ways you get out of the trade:
1. You are stopped out 2. Your target is filled 3. A signal sets up in the opposite direction to your position and is triggered
Discipline is the precursor to consistency. Discipline does not itself lead to consistency, but it does tell you if any of your setups are worth working on or should be dropped from your list. You still do need to find setups that work and once you find one, you are on the way to consistency. New setups that you want to try can be added one by one and discipline is what helps you weed out setups that are not worth trading.
40

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2011
Trading Discipline
When trading BPA, I try to follow the following rules:
1. Clarity: I will not trade unless I read one of my proven setups. I want the setup to be as clear as possible. Any ambiguity probably means the move wont go too far. I want pullbacks to be deep and signal bars to be strong without a lot of overlap. If these characteristics are missing, I will usually wait for a second entry. If the setup is poor, I will often pass it up. I'm OK with not taking any trades on any given trading day.
2. Swingable entries: In general, I only prefer to enter setups that will go four points or more. I also want to only enter where I believe the price will not pullback to my entry price after moving away from the signal bar. Often these are second attempts.
3. Firm stops: Stops can only be tightened. Once the price moves a certain distance away from the entry price (say 2 points), I will move the stop to breakeven and lock in gains beyond every new swing point.
4. A few good trades: In general, I prefer to take a few good trades rather than many mediocre ones. This is because I can be a winning trader with a modest percentage of successful trades as long as at least some of my winners go 2x to 4x the risk.
5. Daily loss limit: Daily stops losses are crucial. Some days, my game is just off possibly due to lack of rest or unexpected price action. I prefer sitting out and keeping my winnings from my prior days over trading every day and losing everything I've made over the last few days.
Note that the above rules are applicable to any trading system and the important point is to stick to these simple rules since they will help you measure your success and isolate winning setups.
Rule 1 and 3 helps you measure your success and helps you to isolate winning entries. Rule 2 and 3 improve your win/loss ratio. Rule 2 and 4 helps you focus on larger moves and not be mesmerized by the current bar or two. Rule 5 helps to protect you against outlier days when price action is not favorable to trading. You can measure your progress by keeping a score card of each trade to see if you followed the rules you laid down. Soon you will be able to detect what areas you need to work on.
MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2011
Overconfidence
Consistency requires practice and you just need experience with all sorts of price action. When the price action changes by either slowing down to tiny bars or being volatile with huge bars, your consistency will suffer some impairment. This will continue until your trading experience builds sufficient recall that you will be able to react effortlessly. For many traders, the start of consistency brings a new enemy: Overconfidence. This will trick the trader into trying new setups, increasing size aggressively, taking larger risk and in general work hard on self-sabotaging and loss of their hard earned consistency.
For example, a trader making 2 points consistently by trading the first two-legged pullback of the day may become successful enough that he thinks he can add a new setup or perhaps incorporate a new trading style such as trading mid-bar or on limit. Chances are that the new addition negatively impacts his trading results and may flip him back to being a losing trader.
41

The devastation and loss of confidence that can follow is possibly severe. A trader may find himself between periods of consistency and inconsistency and lose hope of ever being able to trade consistently for a living. Overconfidence is hard to treat because its hard to distinguish it from plain confidence when you have to judge yourself. The way to deal with this is to attempt only one new setup at a time and only try it once or twice a day. New styles such as limit trading and mid-bar entry should never be attempted since they are microoptimizations. If most of your setups are expected to go 4 points, an additional one point by entering on limit is usually not worth the additional risk. Prove all new setups by trying them on disciplined SIM trading first and tabulate results. Many of them are probably not even worth trying.
Remember that success lies in taking a few profitable trades and working on increasing the volume. A trader with only one winning setup that is 70% successful is better off than one with a 100 setups that are overall 50% successful.
You need only one or two good setups. Even a single setup could take years to master so don't try to cram new techniques until you have mastered your current setup.
MONDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2011
Going on Tilt
Poker players understand that when a player gets an especially bad beat, he is likely to go "on tilt" and especially when its a large pot. This generally means the player is likely to play the next few hands aggressively on weaker cards and in general make poor judgements trying to win his money back. Whenever anyone at a table has a bad beat, the rest of the table will turn on the player like vultures hoping to take the rest of his chip stack.
This is relevant to traders because a lot of traders approach trading like they approach gambling. A strong belief in luck and other superstition, trading larger size after a beat, bragging about your huge wins but not mentioning your losses, etc. are signs that you may be approaching trading as an alternative gambling system.
And just like gambling, most players will end up losing most of the time with an occasional win that you brag about. If this is the case with you, you are better off going to the casino and playing blackjack -- at least you will get free drinks.
A significant cause of a bad beat is the unexpectedness of the result. The player was expecting a win -- possibly a large win -- but was shocked to end up a loser. This shakes the player's confidence in his ability to read the cards and analyze the players' moves and in general play the game successfully. At this point he needs to win just to restore his confidence and he needs to win quickly. This urgent need will impair his judgement and force a lot of errors. Going on tilt in trading is psychologically very similar.
The way to approach this is to avoid having a large beat. Always enter fixed risk and size. Over time as your consistency improves, you may choose to increase the size but you should never trade arbitrary size just because you are "feeling lucky". You should also never loosen your stops or add-on to a losing position, since large losses are what will impair you psychologically.
In addition, your daily loss limit needs to be fixed. Just as you would leave the table when you realize you are the worst player, you should stop trading for the day if you have been beat 2 or 3 times in the day. Over time, the knowledge that your downside is limited per trade and per day, while your upside is much larger will give you confidence and eliminate the gambler's mentality.
42

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2011
The need to be right
When a trade fails and the market moves against the trader, she may continue to re-enter in the same direction over and over again. At the end of the day, the trader may realize she has been shorting all the way to the top, usually unsuccessfully on a strong bull day. Similarly, some traders will buy every drop on a bear day, assuming that "it should turn anytime now". Being married to the bias is a common failing. The trader insists he knows better than the market and it should turn and go in his direction anytime soon. The failing to recognize that the market is always right and the trader is always wrong is a fundamental error that can be the difference between one bad trade and a series of bad trades. Such a mindset is also liable to encourage the trader to add-on to a losing position because every failed entry results in a much better price if the price is going to reverse anyway. A simple but hard way to deal with this is to not have bias. This means ignoring news, TV, economic and political analysis such as why the market should go down because of the misdeeds of politicians, why Europe is doomed or pretty much anything else since news is sensation-driven and does not reflect immediate demand and supply. Even if you do have bias, if the trade goes against you for a large number of points, you should not enter in the same direction until there was an obvious trendline break and test of extreme. Most important, do not be shocked that your trade has failed. No one can be right all the time. Keep your loss small by taking an early loss and sit out for a couple of bars if you need to clear your mind. Taking a step back and looking at the overall chart or a higher timeframe will often reset your bias and allow you to recognize trendlines and enter with-trend or sit out of choppy moves.
43

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2012
I understand the setups, but am unable to trade
Many traders have contacted me privately and mentioned that while they understand the setups and can recognize them post-market or often real-time, they are unable to trade them. Some of it is due to being in a counter-position but a lot of it due to various psychological reasons.
Some of the symptoms and reasons are:
1. Freezing/unable to pull the trigger: This is due to fear of being wrong. 2. Impulse/Chasing: Freezing often leads to chasing, i.e. entering where you should be
exiting. This is fear of being left out. Late entries mid-bar fall into this category. 3. Being shaken out: You havent mentally accepted your risk. 4. Unable to hold, exiting early: You are not confident of your read. 5. Revenge trading: Emotionally upset at loss, want to win right now! 6. Fading a strong trend instead of trading with trend: Perfectionists fall for this since
they want the market to validate their genius ability to predict where the market turns exactly. 7. Letting a winner turn loser: Caused by greed and high expectations. 8. Scaling into a losing position: Caused by the need to be right. Trader will continue to scale in until the pain of losing money is greater than pain of being wrong. 9. Reversing your position on a loss: Some setups are reversible, for example failed A2 is usually an indication of two more legs in the new direction. However, this is about reversing your position on any failed trade without knowing if its reversible.
In addition there are poor trading habits that cause lower success rate:
1. Trading off poor signal bars: Poor signal bars sometimes work but it takes experience to trade them correctly. In particular, they need to have some strengthening factors such as being a BT or being on the ema. Most traders would do best to skip the trade and let it run without you.
2. Trading BW/OL: Most trades in BW/OL are likely to fail. Yes, some breakouts do occur out of BW but you are usually better off trading the failure or BP of the breakout.
3. Getting in before the signal bar triggers: Some traders are anxious to get a better price so they buy before the signal bar triggers.
I would like to address these in various blog posts showing where on the chart such an error may occur and how to avoid them. This will change the format of the charts for a few days. If you made a certain error on a given day, you could let me know and I will add it to the day's chart.
If you have any common mistakes that you would like me to address, just post a comment on this blog post and I will add it to the list.
44

SUNDAY, JULY 3, 2011
Eliminating your mistakes, one by one
When you lose a trade, you have to ask yourself if you entered correctly and it just went against you or if it was an emotional or careless entry. Traders who can otherwise read price action well will still be unprofitable because they do not have the discipline to enter only on good setups. Your first task as a trader is to assess your winning percentages over a fixed timeframe, say a week. Is your winning percentage under 50%? In that case, maybe your current trading style is unsuitable to your personality. Are you trading breakouts and you panic when it moves against you? Maybe you are better off buying pullbacks. Are you trading counter-trend all the time? Perhaps a switch to with-trend trading may improve your score. Your first goal is to find a system where you are right at least 50% of the time on most days. The next task is to assess every losing trade at the end of every day and update a chart as shown above. List your common mistakes and how many times you committed them per day. There are two categories of mistakes. Ones that you commit on most days and ones that you commit rarely except on certain days when you make a lot of them. Some are both. For example, in the chart above, trading BW/ol is a mistake that is committed almost everyday but also especially on certain price action (Thursday in the example). Buying the wrong signal bar triggered only on two days, but on Wednesday it triggered 3 times. Mistakes that you commit on most days is the most important to fix. Pick the one that has caused you the highest losses and work on it consciously every trading day until you make it not more than twice a week. Then move to the next one. Mistakes that you commit on specific kinds of days are easier to fix. You just need to recognize the kind of day that triggers an avalanche of mistakes. Are you shorting your way to the top on a Spike and channel day? Once you see the channel stop trading or only take withchannel trades. Put a post-it note on your monitor that warns: "Watch for channel!" if you must. Are you buying every bull breakout in a strong bear? Fade the breakout instead. A genuine setup that you would take otherwise that just happened to go against you is not a mistake. That's part of trading. But you should keep track of this separately. This information allows you to select setups that are best for you and you should choose only the top 2 in the beginning and add others slowly as your trading improves.
45

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2012
Freezing, inability to pull the trigger
Traders often complain that they are unable to enter what may be a good setup. Sometimes signal bars are weak or the move itself it hard to discern. Know first that these are extremely valid concerns. Your body has learnt to be cautious and will react vicerally causing you to pause due to the accumulated stress of prior mistakes. In principle, this is exactly like getting a static electric shock when you touch a metal surface. If done often enough, your body will refuse to touch the object even when you command your hand to do so. You can reduce the impact of the reaction by reducing your trading size. Trade only 1c or trade 100 shares of SPY or even 10 shares. If you wish you could even trade on a simulator and risk no money at all in the beginning and slowly move to real money using very small size. One way to work on eliminating the freezing reaction with this is to evaluate your setups objectively, rather than subjectively. In general no setup is perfect and waiting for very clear setups often means you rarely trade. This is actually not a bad thing for a new trader. Alternatively, a trader may choose to let something else compensate for weakness. For example, you may choose to take a weak bar if the pattern is clear, such as the 1PB at b8. It was effectively an L2 at a lower high after a strong bar b3. Another strengthener is the ema, so the FF and W at b16 for example could be tradeable based on being at a strong place. Conversely, a trader may choose to take a strong bar even if the pattern looks uncertain such as the 1Rev at b1 or the fBO at b65. So a weak pattern with a weak signal such as b39 can be ignored until you develop the experience to read them correctly. While b39 did work, this would save you from reading b33 as an A2 for example. But once you have an objective set of rules as to what is tradable, you should follow it. The key to trading success is to follow your objective criteria with discipline and let the market stop you out if you are wrong. Without this, there is no way of measuring what setups work for you and what do not. Once you have the data, you can winnow your setups and trade only the ones that work best for you. Don't focus on winning or losing. You are collecting data about your setups and losers are a necessary part of the data. Once you accept losing trades as part of what you seek, your freezing reaction will fade over time.
46

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2012
Trigger happy
The English have two qualities that I admire: caution and courage --Napolean Caution without courage is timidity. Courage without caution is foolhardiness. A trader needs to develop caution tempered with courage to protect from being swayed by emotions. The opposite of the trader who fears getting into any trade is the trader who gets into every possible trade. The truth is, the over-trader is simply scared of missing a big move, which he thinks will happen "anytime now". Fortunately, this mistake is rectified very quickly as soon as the trader blows his fifth or sixth account. But by then, he has turned into a fearful trader. For example, a trigger happy trader may buy the close of b1 reading it as a reversal bar and a strong close indicating a possible bullish trend from first bar (T1B) day. To his horror b2 starts selling right from its open into its close. At this point, he may turn short below b1 or below b2. If he's lucky, he's scalped out and is close to breakeven by the close of b3. If not, he may buy b4, then sell b8 and by the time b11 appears, he is emotionally exhausted, possibly down by a few points for the day and has thoroughly exercised his expletive vocabulary. The sense of urgency the trader felt as he entered every trade so far is his very undoing. This is the exact feeling a car dealer will try to induce in a customer at the dealership. "If you buy right now, you get this and this" or "tomorrow, we may not be able to work out such great financing", etc. Without the emotion of urgency, our trader may read the chart differently. For example, if it was presented bar by bar a month later, since he's not tormented by an urgency to make money, it should be apparent that b1 was a doji and not a reversal bar and its close or breakout does not merit a buy. Similarly, selling below a doji on the first attempt is dangerous. The over-trader thinks like a gambler. To him any trade has the same chance of success or failure, sort of like betting on red on the roulette wheel. He will bet on every spin since every spin is essentially the same. Traders however, need to think like poker players. Only play good hands and muck poor hands. A better analogy is to think of trading like hunting. Its insufficient to spot a prey that would make a fine meal. Everything should be positioned for a successful hunt before you risk life and limb to chase it
47

The trick to trading successfully is to only take setups that you are certain will work. Its insufficient to correctly read the direction of market movement. In the beginning that may mean you are just watching the market day after day, without taking any trade. This is very important and you should not skip it. What you are doing is removing the fever and developing the patience of a hunter. Over time, you will be able to read patterns where your probability of success is high. Keep a list of proven setups handy. At any point you feel the urge to enter, ask yourself: Is this a setup I know is high probability? If not, pass up the trade. Its not worth it to find out. If you feel you cannot control yourself, trade it on SIM. But eventually, you need to let it go without even resorting to trading it on SIM. Once you enter, follow your risk management strictly. If it stops you out, so be it. That data goes into your statistical database and is essential to selecting the best setups for you.
48

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2012
Getting shaken out Part I - Large risk.
Large setup bars often have large pullbacks after entry or outright failure. The reason for this is simple. When the risk is large, risk management rules prevent many professional traders from entering on the breakout of that bar. (News related activity is a notable exception). The knowledge that large bars are unlikely to be successful setups also encourages faders to fade a large bar causing large bars to often act as trading ranges. Limit traders often buy a pullback after a breakout and often on a smaller timeframe the pullback may be two or three legged. This will often cause a breakout pullback of a large bar to succeed. Regardless of the profit potential, if the theoretical risk of a trade is large, a trader is likely to be very distressed if the market begins to pullback right after entry. This is very natural and its your body warning you that this is possibly a poor trade based on prior experiences. If you have traded large bars and lost a few times, your body will learn to be alarmed when you place the trade when your greed tells you to do so. This is because risk causes stress and large risk causes large stress. When the pullback nears your physical tolerance but not your wide stop, you may despair and get out because you cannot take it anymore. Often, the market will take you out by a tick or two and turn right around. The lesson from this is that stops larger than what your physiology permit are probably useless and moreover, counterproductive. The simple lesson from this is to not take trades where the signal bar is large. Another possible resolution is to use fixed stops for all your trades. If you only use 6t stops, your body will get comfortable with the risk and let your mind focus on high probability setups.
49

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 2012
Getting shaken out II - Poor setup bar.
Often in the heat of the moment or out of boredom or desperation or a fear of missing out, you may end up entering on a less than ideal setup. This happens to the best traders and I'm not sure if there is ever a cure for it. Although these trades may eventually work, you may have to sit through a multi-bar pullback. The more pullback bars you have to sit through, the greater the chances you will get shaken out of the trade. A great example is b29. Its an inside bar after a very strong leg off a W. You may buy above it expecting a large breakout bar, but right after entry it turns into a bearish outside doji bar. Such an entry bar is extremely demoralizing and the trader will begin to see everything that's possibly wrong with the setup bar. It was a 3t doji bar with one body at ema. The entry bar gave a double top with the prior swing high. A second L could turn into an A2 short, etc. The likely result is that the trader will exit at a small loss and the price immediately starts moving up. A second example is buying above b46 (instead of b47). Given that b46 is a bear bar, an H2 above it is highly likely to result in a pullback. The trader may start seeing similar arguments as to why the entry was incorrect and exit at breakeven or strong loss just before price starts moving. Technically, both entries worked. b28 low and b46 lows were respected. But 6t stops were hit. When signal bars are larger, larger fixed stops are also likely to be hit. Note that waiting for a strong bar (b33, b47) would have prevented poor entries. A strong bar such as b47 often will insulate you from poor entries since sellers are likely to sell the close of that bar, preventing it from triggering. A poor entry will often give a second entry (b49 with b46) that will often have a better close or lower risk. Those should help you avoid being shaken out. In general, only taking setups where you are likely to get a strong entry bar is the only way to avoid getting shaken out. These include A2, G2, W1P and 1PB.
50

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7, 2012
Getting shaken out III - Not taking the early profit
When you are trading only one contract, you should always take an early profit. A reasonable early profit could be your risk or slightly higher. When you are trading multiple contracts, you should sell some at an early profit for at least some of your contracts. For a -1.5 stop, I prefer to take a 2 point early profit. Psychologically, this act allows you to tolerate a pullback far more easily than simply holding it to the final target. The early profit ameliorates your stress levels via a couple of pathways. One, it gives you a sense of accomplishment, marks success and gives a boost to your confidence for doing the right thing. Second, it lowers your holding size, reducing the stress you feel when the market pulls back against you. For example, assume you bought b52 today and did not sell at +2 near the high of b56. Your reasoning is simple. It was a one legged breakout after a three legged pullback and should give at least one more leg up. However when the price pulls back to below your entry price on b62, and b62 mid-bar looks like a bear bar, the chances you panicking and exit at a flat or one tick loss are far higher than if you sell half your position at +2. If you sold at +2, you are more relaxed and could easily place your stop at breakeven. Even if its hit, you wouldn't care too much since your trade is already a winner. If you choose to take a 4t extra risk perhaps you would see your new high. Even if the trade went bad, you would still net +1. This knowledge makes it easier to weather a pullback. Holding a winning trade for a choice between a larger winning trade vs a smaller winning trade is far easier than holding a winning trade with a choice between a larger winning trade and a losing trade.
51

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2012
Getting shaken out IV - Recent losing trade
A recent loss shakes your confidence in your next trade often without you noticing it. For example, suppose you shorted b9 and were stopped out on the next bar at b10 high. Another setup bar forms at b11 right away and you re-enter. Chances are high that anything other than bear trend bars will force you to exit early. So when b16 is forming and looks like a bull bar near its high, you may decide to exit on the next tick above and get out exactly where stronger traders add more to their short position. Its likely that if you did not have a recent loss, the pullback wouldn't bother you that much. Its important to know how wins and losses impact you and to learn not to be overconfident after wins or scared after losses. One way around this is to let some time pass after a losing trade. If you choose to wait for two swings (b10h and b15 l) and only take an entry after that, you may possibly read the fH1 at b16 correctly and hold longer. If you are a trader who often or even occasionally experiences a series of losses every few bars, you need to follow the two swing wait rule after exiting any trade regardless of whether its a win or loss.
52

TUESDAY, MARCH 20, 2012
Getting Shaken out V - Mid-bar decisions
One of the troubles that plague discretionary traders is that they are impacted by every tick of the market. Whether the bar grows or pulls back, flips green to red, approaches their stops or moves away will drive all kinds of elation and anxiety in them and this often drives them to make rash decisions. For example, today if a trader bought b4 and moved his stop below b5 after it closed, he should simply wait to either be filled on his target or be stopped out. A weak trader may see b6 turning red when its near its bottom and may wonder if it could turn into a 1PB short. He may feel compelled to exit his long position or even reverse mid-b6. He may reverse to long by buying above b7 and get stopped out at b11 and so on. This kind of trading consists of second guessing yourself on every tick and changing your decision based on mid-bar appearance. Note that most trading methodology is based on how a bar looks after its close and not how it looks mid-bar. So there should be absolutely no reason to make a decision mid-bar. Once you enter a trade and set a stop, it means that you are willing to tolerate a pullback until your stop. If you cannot tolerate a shallower pullback, then you need to find a trading system that allows a smaller pullback. The right thing to do is to let the market either fill your target or stop you out if you are wrong. The only time you should exit early is if the market presents a reasonable opposing trade that you may have taken if you were flat. For example, The DT and W at b24 made me exit my swing long earlier and the long near b64 low was no longer viable after the final flag/1tf/W at around b72 and I exited it before my target was filled. Being able to accept a loss at your stop will also enable to hold till your target is filled. If your stops are regularly taken out, you can simply drop that setup. If your targets fall short all the time, you can learn to have a bit more modest expectations.
53

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012
Unable to hold, exiting early I - Drawn out move
Human beings are naturally impatient and this often works against trading profits. While being unable to hold for long durations is far better than being shaken out, it can often cut profits deep enough to be of some concern. For example, today if a trader bought b19 and held through the horizontal movement around b20-24, he would probably plan to exit on an L2 if the signal is good or on the third push up. Technically, he should exit when the price ticks below b37 or just above b35 (during b39) and then wait for more price action. However, the sideways movement right after entry is likely to have caused him some distress and question the strength of the setup. He may consider the movement as BW and expect any BO above to fail and cause the market to drop below. He may read the bear bar b23 as a break in the trend or b21 and b23 as two interruptions in the trend making b26 a third push up to the ema and exit (or worse reverse his position). After all, thats exactly what happened at b10-13. If b21 had been a large trend bar with a strong close, he would have less of a problem sticking to his plan. The solution to this to understand what b20-24 really is. Its an attempt to fail the reversal and many reversals have such a pattern right after if the entry bar is not a large trend bar. b15 was an fH2 that triggered off the first attempt to reverse at b9 and succeeded in failing the attempted reversal. b23 was a signal bar that attempts to fail the reversal off b19, making it an fH2 if it triggered. Price action such as b20-24 is to be expected right after a reversal if the entry bar is small and the trader has two techniques to deal with it. First, take a first profit at +2 and move stop to breakeven for the remaining position. The very act of taking a profit increases your confidence in the setup and your trading in general. The act of moving the stop to breakeven releases anxiety since the mind perceives lighter risk. Once you hold through the first pullback, sticking to your plan becomes much easier.
54

FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2012
Unable to hold, exiting early II - Recency Bias
Recency bias is our ability to recall recent events and experiences more readily than earlier ones. This means that anything you experience recently is likely to have a disproportionately strong impact on your decision making than older events. Recency bias is very hard to fight since its an essential part of our cognitive and learning processes. For example, today I exited a bit earlier than I could have when I bought above b9. When the initial move off a first reversal (b9-29) is strong, you can often swing a trade till the end of the day or an obvious overshoot of the TCL. However, after adapting to the recent narrow range days, I exited at +6 right above b24 instead of my planned +8. The permanent solution to this is to accumulate experience and develop the skill to quickly recall and adapt to changing conditions. The more experience you accumulate, the less recency bias impacts you. The tactical solution however, is to trade mechanically and stick to the plan. At the least, I should have exited on an L2 (after fL2 b21) below b30 for my swing position.
55

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2012
Unable to hold, exiting early III - Recent losses
One of the most difficult tasks a trader faces is to not let recent outcomes impact their current decisions. For example, a trader who may have sold b3 and bought b5 and lost both trades may have also entered a short below b8. However, instead of letting it run, he may be tempted to take a quick profit and exit his position completely. This is mainly because the two very recent losses have impacted his emotions and judgements pretty intensely even though he may not realize it consciously. The human survival mechanism kicks in and forces the trader to get out at a small, certain profit and be closer to flat for the day rather than risk making the loss larger. It is very hard to overcome this emotional impact and start with a clean slate so to speak since there is insufficient time for the trader to calm down and regain composure. The way I address this is to avoid trading for at least two swings or wait for the price to move away from the area where you had your loss. Not trading for a couple of swings protects you from going into tilt mode. Not trading around the same price protects you from choppy action. If you took a decent looking signal and were stopped out, there is a very good chance you are in some choppy waters and should expect to be stopped out again. Letting the price move away allows some time to pass and is likely to give you a better setup for the next trade.
56

MONDAY, JULY 9, 2012
Exiting early
Although I prefer to swing most of my trades till a trend terminates, sometimes its prudent to exit early. In general when the market is in a trading range, you cannot expect most trades to really break into a very strong trend and you may need to look to exit early.
A classic application of this rule is an fBO trade. Since fBO can only be expected to give two legs and the two legs may or may not take out any target (i.e. recent swing points or H/LOD), its often prudent to take a large open profit. For example, today's fBO setup at b31 popped very high for a second leg up at b48. The theoretical swing stop is below the prior swing (b43) and when the price moves close to a potential target (b17H), it makes sense to exit early and re-enter on the expected deep pullback (eventually occurred at b65). One option is to exit on strength (inset image) or exit on the next tick against you (eventually below b51). I prefer to exit on strength when a potential FF type setup shows up (inside bar b49 could act like FF). Even on trend days, when the market makes a disproportionally strong move, you should expect an extended pullback, which could be either a quick deep pullback or an prolonged shallow pullback. If your swing stop and the price are very far (4+ points) its usually best to take an early profit rather than sit through what could be an prolonged, deep or complex pullback. A notable exception to this rule is the late trend, which rarely pulls back.
57

TUESDAY, MARCH 27, 2012
Trading on tilt and prevention
If a person is hit once, he may try to hit back; if he is hit twice quickly before he can react, he may try to run away and if he is hit three times before he can react, he may go berserk and try to kill or be killed. To some degree this is a survival mechanism and applies to most human interactions. Repeated harassment of someone is also likely to cause the suicide mode to kick in and I have discussed how Poker players can go on tilt if they are in a bad beat. Losing a trade causes similar reactions to losing a poker hand. This is because a moderately good trader expects his trade to work and is often shocked when successive trades are lost one after another. The more trades you lose in succession, the more you are likely to throw caution to the winds and enter on poor setups trying to make back the money you have lost. Narrow days such as today are extremely dangerous to any style of trading, be it scalping, swinging, with-trend or counter-trend. You may not even realize you are a trader that can go on tilt, but its very obvious from your trading history. If most of your days have a small steady profit on a few trades but a few days have huge losses with a large number of trades, you are susceptible to tilt. All kinds of bad trading habits that you thought were kicked for good will re-surface when you are on tilt and you will lose trade after trade and you may end up blowing your account on a single day. There are a few simple things you can do to minimize the damage when going on tilt. A very important technique to prevent a string of losses is to avoid trading for at least two more swings right after a loss. For example, after my loss of b8 buy at b12, I need to sit out until b17. With a few exceptions, taking the very next signal is inadvisable unless the failure move went some points beyond your signal bar. The first thing you do when you lose a trade is to ask yourself if you made a mistake (poor signal, incorrect read, etc). If so, note it down right away in a journal. The very act of noting down a mistake disengages your mind from the chart and forces you to acknowledge your mistake. The next thing you do is to step back from your computer, perhaps get a glass of water to drink or do a couple of push-ups. This is analogous to walking away after being hit instead of risking life and limb in a fight. This also calms the urgency you may feel to get in right away and helps you to avoid trading for two swings. If you encounter a second loss right away after returning, you are less likely to go on tilt. After two or three losses, halt your trading for the day. Traders who go on tilt usually do the least damage if they are able to stop early. The more they trade trying to make up the loss, the larger their daily loss. Its a rare trader who has gone on tilt and recovered in time to make up the loss and end the day a big winner. You will never be able to halt after two losses unless you are also able to step back after a loss and perform the rituals above. Often, the reason for your string of losses is something you may be unaware of. Perhaps you didn't get sufficient sleep or are hungry or had too much to drink the prior night or your internet connection is sporadic or you are trading the wrong contract. In any case, if your win/loss pattern is very different, you should halt trading for the day.A fixed maximum daily loss is the perfect complement to a fixed per-trade loss. Celebrate your freedom from the trading desk when you hit it and go out and enjoy your day.
58

FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2012
Revenge Trading - Reversing where you would be stopped out
As I've previously posted, a trend first bar is just a trading range. However, a strong bear close that overshoots a bull channel TCL from the prior day is a sign of a move down. If a trader chooses to sell below b1 instead of waiting for a breakout pullback of b1, he may follow standard price action principles and move his stop above b2. Since b2 is had a strong close, he may simply decide to reverse where he is being stopped out. This is an unplanned trade and is a form of revenge trade. This is caused by the trader having a plan for success, but not a plan for failure. He has very carefully visualized his setup, entry and targets. He may have chosen his stop, but being so sure of his trade, does not really expect it to be hit. After all, the setup is just too beautiful. How could it ever fail? The failure of a beautiful setup usually means you are still in a choppy trading range and there is a very good chance that any setups near this area are likely to fail regardless of direction. The right thing to do is to wait out two swings or until the price moves some distance away from choppy action. Since I had taken b7 and was stopped out, my plan required me to stay out for two swings or until the price moved some distance away from this setup, both of which meant I would enter on the 1st PB after the reversal at b15. While some traders can retain clarity of thought after a loss, many just wont be able to. For example, if an experienced trader shorted below b71 after reading it as an A2 short (since b69 is an L1 variant) and was stopped out, he may retain the clarity of mind to correctly short b74 as a W pullback. (but he could probably never do so if he reversed and went long during b73.) However, under most circumstances its best to wait out two swings. A short below b50 DT was stopped out at b55. Naturally, a short after 7 bull bars is likely to fail even if this was not BW. After waiting two swings, i.e., close of b63, chances of a successful trade increase. The price has also moved the size of a recent bar or two away from the original price and has also given the trader some time to regain composure. In summary, when you encounter a loss, always avoid getting back in right away. Have some criteria for re-entry. The chances of you reacting emotionally and urgently right after a loss is very high and puts you at severe disadvantage. In this state you are unlikely to be reading the market at your finest skill level. Let the market go for now and wait for better price action. Entering on strong bars is a great way to filter poor price action areas. Strong setup bars failing actually gives you a lot more information about the market since poor bars could fail anywhere but strong bars only fail in trading ranges/channels.
59

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2012
Fading a strong trend instead of trading with trend
One of the classic trader's error is to fall in love with their first position. If a trader bought b2 since he may be expecting gap closure or b5 as a possible second attempt to close the gap or 1PB, he may be surprised when the market stops him out and takes out the low of the day. When he later sees b9, he may see a reversal bar. b12 may appear as a reversal bar after a possible 1 bar FF at b11. b12,13 may appear to be a rather strong 2 bar reversal. The trader may end up buying every one of these and getting stopped out every time. (The alternative, adding on at every new signal is far more dangerous). One of the reasons I prefer to trade on breakouts of signal bars rather than simply buy on close is that it prevents me from entering into many incorrect trades such as these. The complementary situation is the trader who was right about the initial direction but fails to see the trend break (b19-b27) and test (b49) and insists on shorting every move up. After a major reversal at b49, there are no more short trades and b58 therefore is not an A2 short. (A common reason for failed A2s is being in denial about trend termination or trend reversal). A common reason for such behavior is the trader's bias about market direction. This bias may be a fundamental bias caused by reading too many economic blogs or watching TV or other inherent biases about the strength or weakness about the world economy that the trader wants to see reflected in the market today. Traders who don't watch news are possibly subject to technical bias. They may have an inherent belief in some pattern or indicator and are expecting a strong reaction. It is correct to trade those and natural for some of them to fail. The trader however, should not repeatedly enter a trade in the same direction assuming he would eventually be proven right. This is the need for acceptance and is a strong human trait. You should not let it meddle with your trading since the market is too impersonal to either accept or reject you. The trader needs to realize that all biases and opinions are always wrong regardless of their direction. Only the market is right and for a day trader, the strength and underpinnings of the economy are meaningless. Patterns and indicators are tools and they fail occasionally no matter how reliable they may have been. The right way to trade is to accept only what the market presents and be aware that trends can break, trading ranges can breakout and nothing is guaranteed to run forever or reverse eventually.
60

MONDAY, MAY 7, 2012
Types of trading errors
I have arbitrarily classified trading errors into the following:
1. Directional error: Trader in incorrect regarding primary market direction 2. Entry error: Trader has entered too early or on the wrong bar 3. Stop error: Trader has used stop thats too wide or too narrow 4. Execution error: Trader loosened or tightened stop too early or was shaken out.
Directional error: A trader has missed the end of a trend or incorrectly reads a pullback as a reversal. Misreading a trading range as a trend and vice-versa also are part of directional error. A couple of years of trading later, traders get a general sense of where the market is heading and these errors should become rarer. For example, the move to b68 broke the trend and its clear even without a trendline. At this point any with-trend setup such as b69 should be suspect. b69 buy is a directional error. Entry error: The trader is generally right regarding where the market is headed but enters on improper bars. For example, after two failures to sell in the AM (b3 and b8), there is a good chance the market is headed higher. A trader who buys b12 makes an entry error. Stop error: The trader is right regarding direction and entry. However, his stop is to tight or too lax. A trader who bought b28 with a 5t stop had a very tight stop and would be stopped out. Overlaps require a larger stop, at least 6t. Inside bars have their theoretical stops below the preceding outside bar. Similarly, a buyer above b6 who keeps his stop below b6 has a stop that's too large. Execution Error: Entering late (more than 1t beyond bar except due to slippage), getting shaken out on the first pullback (ok to exit on the second pullback), tightening stop before price moves away or gives a first pullback, loosening stop so that the pullback does not hit your stop, exiting when you have a tiny profit are some of the common execution errors. Most execution errors are due to psychological pressure and it often means the risk is too much for you to bear.
A trader often grows by overcoming these errors often in the exact order above. If your sense of direction is generally wrong, you will never be able to swing for many points. You should think of alternative trading styles, such as scalping for a point or two and trying to reach a high level of accuracy. Entry errors are usually caused by taking the first setup, usually a poor setup due to large signal bar or overlap. Your best bet is to restrict yourself to only very clear setup bars or second entries. Stop errors can be largely eliminated using fixed stops of 6t for inside and borderline overlapped bars and 5t for everything else. Execution errors are harder to address. The best way to work on them is to have a fire and forget trading style with fixed stops and targets and only exit by filling an OCO stop/target.
61

TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2012
Letting a winner turn into a loser
Greed, fear and hope are the terrible curses that afflict traders. Hope can be eliminated with clear fixed stops. Greed and fear need to be balanced against each other and will never really go away. Not every trade will be a winner and for a lot of traders, taking a first profit greatly improves their equity curve. This is especially true for reversals and attempted breakouts out of a trading range since these setups fail routinely. For example, traders expecting an imminent reversal of the trading range (since b38 was a 2L LH after a trendline break -- a major reversal setup) will often hold all-in and will refuse to take a profit. Such traders may even keep their stop above the signal bar until an additional LH is formed. Those traders would have lost today. A trader that took an early profit on the other hand, was a small winner even though both were wrong about the overall market direction. If a trader sold b38, he is best served by taking a profit when he is right and moving the stop to breakeven when his target is filled. If the market moves against him twice, i.e., ticks beyond a bar twice against his trade (above b48), he would need to exit if he has not been filled. If he was filled, he should move his stop to breakeven on the balance of his position. A trader who sold b23 today as the first pullback after a W made a profit of 4 pts. He should keep his stop on any runners at breakeven. Keeping the stop above the signal bar or worse, above a prior swing is a symptom of hope and not objectivity. No matter how obvious the reversal at b12 and the first LH at b23 may look, the trade can always fail and its best to let it stop you out and look for a fresh trade. Even in a very strong high momentum trend, you are usually better off taking an early profit. This is because if you entered early in the move, the chances of a sustained trend are unknown and if you enter late, the chances of a trend reversing or going into a deep pullback stopping you out are always existing risk factors.
62

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6, 2012
Adding to a losing position
Among all the trading sins, none is venial as adding to a losing position for a better average price. On trading range days, adding-on may work eventually although a trader would end up trading way beyond his comfort level before he sees a price better than his average price. On many days, he may only get away with a scratch. On trend days such as today, counter-trend traders are likely to get killed if they add on anytime the trade moves against them. For example, a trader may short b10 as a first attempt to reverse (which is profitable on many days), but when the trade moves against him, instead of letting the market stop him out, he may decide to move the stop way up and add on where he would be stopped out or on the next signal. The psychological issue at hand is the desire to pick the exact high or low of the move to get the best possible price. This combined with a wrong sense of direction will destroy the trader's account rapidly. The way to deal with this issue is to resolve to never trade reversals. A trader should always wait for the reversal to succeed and establish a successful trend in the opposite direction and enter on its first pullback. Unless a reversal is obvious, it is likely to fail. On a day such as today, a trader looking to short would do much better if he waited for the short trend (b41-47) to establish and then enter on b50 than to short every bear bar on the way up from b1 trying to pick the exact turn.
63

THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012
Reversing your postion on a loss
One of the prevalent causes of overtrading is reversing every time a trader gets stopped out. Many traders fall into this trap because they only pay attention to bars and have no choice but to flip on anything that may look like a reversal bar. For example, if a trader shorted b29 as two legs up in a bear and then on b32 he may interpret that the trend may have flipped and buys b32 and then sells b34 and so on. The second reason traders fall for this is that have heard that a failure is a strong signal and a failed failure is an even stronger signal and two failures in the same direction are extremely strong etc. Therefore if a trader sold b34 as a W24,29,34 he may see b37 as two pushes down and reverse to long. The chop in this area may end up being read as fL2 or fH2 or any number of things causing him to interpret a new direction with every bar. The real problem here is that the trader is focusing on a micro level. A trader always needs to keep in mind if the market is trending (b1-b17) or chopping around (b25-b45), breaking out and failing (b46-53) or breaking out and continuing (b56-70). Being aware of the nine transitions reduces directional error. Reversing very often is rooted in the fear of missing an impending very large move. This symptom also suggests that a trader's sense of market direction is undeveloped. This can be combated by realizing that if you are stopped out twice near the same price area, you are probably in chop and your entry is effectively trying to predict a breakout. Predicting breakouts is one of the hardest things to do in trading, whereas waiting for a breakout to occur and jumping on the first pullback is far easier. My way of avoiding falling into this trap is to assume that if my trade fails, the market probably in a chop and except in the first hour, I will avoid re-entering until the price moves away from the area. For example, if I read b34 as a W and sold it, I will not trade until price moves away from b34, i.e. until b49. There are two exceptions to this rule. If an opposing trade fails twice, I may consider entering again in the same direction. For example, I was stopped out of my trade on b17 long, b20 setup a short and failed twice when b25 triggered. This should only be done if you are expecting a very large move. In the first hour if the stop out was due to a fixed stop and not a theoretical stop, I will usually re-enter. For example, if I shorted b1 and my 6t stop was taken out, then the trade hasn't theoretically failed until b2 high is taken out. I will enter on b6 even though the price hasn't moved away from my losing trade. Remember that there are one or two and occasionally three good swings a day. Focus on capturing a decent portion of those. This ensures a very high risk to reward ratio and eventually a very high win to loss ratio.
64

FRIDAY, JULY 20, 2012
The hard road to consistency I - Overtrading
The trouble with trading is that you are in a position to do whatever you want and need to struggle to develop the discipline not to do things that hurt you. This is exactly the opposite from the real world where you are in a position to do very few things and have to struggle to do things you want to do. You will learn very quickly that doing everything that comes to your mind leads quickly to ruin. The only way out is to learn not to do things. Your focus needs to change to stop doing things that cost you money even though they work some of the time. In trading nothing is guaranteed. No setup is guaranteed to work every single time and even the best setups can have a repeated sequence of many losses. Everything is a probability and probability works only with a large number of samples. Even a 50% setup should be expected to see at least 6 consecutive losers in 100 attempts. (Go ahead, toss a coin 100 times).
65

Despite having a profitable system, many traders fail and this is because they are unable to follow their own rules. A trader needs to figure out what habits are damaging their trading and root them out.
The most dangerous bad habit is over-trading. What over-trading is depends on your style of trading. If your goal is to trade the 3 to 5 large swings of the day, then any day over 10 trades is probably over-trading. If you are a scalper who wants to take 10 trades a day, 20 may not be that bad but 40 certainly is. The best measure of overtrading is a poor win/trade ratio. 2 points from one trade is decent, 2 points from 20 trades is not.
Overtrading usually is caused by the trader reacting poorly (emotionally) to a loss. There are two kinds of reactions to a lost trade: Retrying and flip-flopping. A trader who has decided the market is going down will continue to short the market over and over, regardless of stopouts. He thinks he is right about the direction of the market but incorrect about timing or stop size. The next time has to work!
The flip-flopper is far worse. He will go long if stopped out of a short trade and vice-versa. If a great long setup was stopped out, then the market certainly should drop, right? (Answer: wrong. See b14)
The correct way to react on a loss is to look at the market objectively and enter only if there is an extremely good reason. A trader susceptible to overtrading should just sit out a few bars even if there appears to be a good reason to re-enter. Usually, if you were stopped out of a good setup, the market probably is in chop and you should not trade for a while.
Wait for the price to move away from the area you were stopped out from or give two swings in opposite directions after the bar that stopped you out. Most traders who enter right away after being stopped out have a state of mind thats a possible combination of disappointment, surprise, sense of urgency and desperation all of which are likely to cloud their judgement. Until you are consistent, stay out until price moves away or gives two more swings after a losing trade.
The mind treats losses like a mini-trauma and needs time to recover. Most losses due to overtrading are caused by poor judgement due to recent loss.
You also need to protect your account from being blown up because you cannot accept to have a losing day and will keep trying to trade your way out of a drawdown. Over traders should have a strict rule regarding the number of losing trades they have per day. If you are in a state of mind that is causing you to lose over and over, trying harder is likely to make it worse, not better.
Understand that your main goal as a trader is to manage risk and once you have crossed a certain number of losing trades, your risk of ending the day with a larger loss is higher if you continue to trade and manage the risk by stopping trading.
66

TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2012
The hard road to consistency II - The off day
"A Samarian warrior does not fear death, nor does he rush out to meet it" --Conan the Barbarian Trading requires you be at your very best. You need to be alert and focused. You need to be rested and undistracted. You need to have eaten and your body should be healthy. Do not party unless the market is closed the next day. Despite diligence to your alertness and despite years of good trading, you will most certainly have an occasional off day when you are just not in the game. Many traders who have an early brush with consistency accumulate enough points to think they have made it and start increasing their trading size. This is dangerous because a single off day can wipe you out. The most dangerous thing about nacent consistency is that you won't believe you can be wrong repeatedly on the same day and will have the confidence to think that you can win back everything you lost. This is why I have a strict two failed trade limit. You may take a PM trade if you lose two trades in the AM but only if a great trade sets up (for a maximum total of three losses a day). The following signs should alert you that today is an off day:
1. You already have a reason to believe you may not be at your best (did not sleep/eat) 2. You lapsed into poor habits you thought were broken long ago 3. You are repeatedly reading the market worse than usual 4. You already hit your max losses
The moment you realize you are off, you need to stop trading. Even many years later, you will certainly encounter a day where you simply are not in tune with the market. Stop before you damage yourself more. Release yourself from the pressure to make money and focus on studying your newfound situation. This day is a poor trading opportunity but a great educational opportunity. Study your behavior and study the market's behavior.
67

MONDAY, JULY 30, 2012
The hard road to consistency III - The heavy cost of education
Trading is very expensive to learn. There are countless ways to trade, many of which are unprofitable and many others profitable only to their sole practitioners. Of these countless ways of trading, only a couple are probably suited for you. Most people who try to trade systems without proving it to themselves will end up losing everything they put into it. It is my opinion that a couple of observations of market behavior are insufficient to be branded setups and traded off. Its like observing the number thirteen is unlucky or people with the zodiac sign Leo are born leaders. It may seem true due to selection bias but most likely its just simple superstition. Many trading setups are superstitions and you should not trade them until know the probabilities for each setup. Whatever setup you observe, read on a blog, hear from some hotshot trader or otherwise obtain from other means needs to be tested and measured to determine the following:
ñ Potential reward:risk (Needs to be at least 1:1, 2:3 or better recommended) ñ Stop size required (Smaller is better or you may get shaken out) ñ Probability of success: (Theoretically 50%+ but 60%+ recommended) ñ Invalidating conditions and subtle variations (the fewer, the better) The best way to get this information is to actually trade the setups. A sample of 20 trades will quickly eliminate poor setups. A sample of 40 should be sufficient to calculate probabilities. A sample of 100 should be sufficient to calculate stops.
Setups have subtle variations that make a given setup clear or strong vs muddy or weak. For example, today's trend down b12-27 from the W reversal was broken by a counter-trend move b35-49 and then we got a deep mW b50-55 (two inside bars b52,54 make this three tiny pushes). The subtle difference between the three pushes ending a leg versus an actual reversal of a trend takes experience and many traders could fail to realize that this is not an actual reversal. If they did not take a scalp profit, they probably were stopped out. Such losses add to the overall cost of your trading education and only screen time will make you better.
68

I believe the first year of trading can be done entirely in SIM and will probably save tens of thousands of dollars for the average trader. I have yet to meet a single trader who became profitable in the first year. Save the capital for once you know what you are doing. Modern SIM trading is extremely realistic and enables you to keep the same detailed records of wins, stops required, etc. The only thing missing is your mental discipline and ability to trade exactly as if it was the real thing. If you wish, you can toss a coin and switch between real trading and SIM trading arbitrarily until your mind does not differentiate. Most traders fail because they run out of capital and the severe loss of the first few years of trading makes them give up. Reduce the cost of education by carefully evaluating and choosing setups and practicing your system until your prove it to yourself.
69

FRIDAY, AUGUST 3, 2012
The hard road to consistency IV - Very few low risk trades
Your consistency will only improve when your outlook changes from looking eagerly to make a profit to watching cautiously to minimize risk. Letting trades go if they dont seem to match the risk to reward expectation is the basic underlying framework of any profitable trading system. As long as you try to recognize every tradable patterns and act on them, you are likely to stay a breakeven trader or slightly better. Once you are comfortable letting trades go, you become a far better trader. The larger your risk, the higher your chances of making a trade work, but also higher your loss if the setup were to fail. The bare minimum risk on ES is 5t. If you are just starting out, your win rate is probably near 50%. At 50% a 1 point win such as the long above b11 versus a 5t loss actually works against you. To account for commissions and other costs, you need to take at least 6t just to breakeven. You would really need to look for trades that give you 2x your risk. On an average day, there may be about two to five low risk/high reward trades. Your goal should be to focus on them and not bother with the minor trades. For example, today there were only three setups that gave 10t while respecting a 5t stop (marked with dots on chart). Technically, some other bars such as b60 and b20 may have worked but they were second entries or not clear setups. The best risk to reward is the first deep pullback in a new move. b17L was the first deep pullback in a bull move and b69S was the first deep pullback in a bear move. Measuring risk is also about knowing when you can trade and when you need to sit out. When bars are small (b23-60) you are usually better off sitting out until bars come back to normal. Otherwise, you risk the pattern play out just as you expected but unable to reach your target. Wait for decent sized bars and then look for setups.
70

MONDAY, AUGUST 6, 2012
The hard road to consistency V - Poor price action days
In the post Off days, I spoke about the trader not being upto his game despite the price action being conducive to his type of trading. The flip side is when the trader is focused and ready but the price action is extremely poor. Today was such a day on ES. Of course what constitutes poor price action varies based on trading strategy. For someone who takes very few trades and swings them to the max, a small range day with overlapped TTR action on most of the day is probably the worst kind of price action. On the other hand, a tick scalper would probably love a day like this. There was no clear signal that worked the entire day and the biggest moves on b1 and b74 arguably were not off clear signals. New traders may get chopped up losing entire weeks worth of earnings on a day like this. This is mainly due to focusing on patterns and ignoring market context. The risk management strategy to deal with such a day is exactly the same as the off day. You need to stop trading after two losses. Occasionally, you could look for an additional PM setup if a good one sets up (it did not today). Expert and agile traders (I'm not one) may be able to switch context and switch to fading entry bars to get 10t on quite a few trades (for example, fading the second push down by selling close of b23 or buying close of b31 with 4t risk and 8t target) Remember that every day does not have to be a winning day. Some days are simply not meant for swinging style trading. Since I choose to not trade unless my potential reward is 2x the risk, I prefer to stay out and reduce my exposure than to take smaller rewards (There were a few 1:1 setups).
71

THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2012
The hard road to consistency VI - Your equity curve as a price chart.
If you plot your winning days as green bars and losing days as red bars, you get a chart of your account size that looks similar to the price chart such as the one shown above. What makes a price chart go up and down also makes your trading account balance go up and down. When your trading is in an uptrend, you have mostly winning days with occasional losing days. The fewer and smaller your losing days, the faster your account grows. Therefore a winning trader's account shows a cumulative graph like that of b1-17. A breakeven trader is likely to have alternating winning and losing days, todays gains lost the next day such as the range between b45-59. A losing trader is likely to lose a few times (b1825) and go on tilt (b26-29) and then stop trading or change his style. Its obvious that for your account to grow, you need to have fewer and smaller losing days and larger and greater number of winning days. While you may not be able to control the number of winning days versus losing days in the beginning, you certainly have the power to control how large a losing day is. Limiting your maximum loss per day prevents days where you go on tilt, effectively reducing days that look like b27 to a small bear bar, meaning much faster recovery on days where price action is more suited to your style and skill level of trading. The first thing a big losing trader needs to do is be a smaller losing trader and then change to a breakeven trader. If you take trades where your wins are twice as large as your losses, there are very few ways you can be a losing trader, for example by going on tilt and taking questionable trades. At worst you should be a breakeven trader with alternating winning and losing days. Once you are a breakeven trader, you can stay in the game indefinitely and hone your trading skills until you slowly start seeing profit. A breakeven trader can keep detailed logs regarding setups tried, stop sizes used, win rates, confidence in the read, etc. and narrow choices to a small set of setups that work for him. Continuous focus on this small set of setups over time will slowly flip these setups from net breakeven to net wins.
72

MONDAY, AUGUST 13, 2012
The hard road to consistency VII Ù No good signal bars
One of the most frustrating things for a trader is the lack of a good signal bar in a trend. A good signal bar is any signal bar with a shaved or 1t tail on the entry side and at least a 2t body. Ideally, the signal bar is neither too small or too large compared to recent bars. I always recommend entering on good signal bars for a couple of reasons. When the market is not ready to trend your way, a strong signal bar is unlikely to trigger (b12, b66). This will protect you from many poor trades. A second important feature of good signal bars is that they are likely to respect a fixed stop (5t/6t for ES) for any given instrument. However, on some days, there simply is no good signal bar in the direction of the trend (b10,16,20,38,50,73) but the reverse direction will often give great looking signal bars (b12,27,30,44,53,66,76). This is typical of channel type price action. A trader who insists on great signal bars is likely to take very few trades on a channel day Ù which is not necessarily a bad thing, since channels are very hard to trade for most traders. One way around this is to valuate the strengths of a signal by 3 criteria: location, pattern and signal bar. If location and pattern are strong, take a poor signal bar with-trend. For our purposes, location is a support such as HLC of prior day, ema, trendline, breakout point (as in BT) etc. Pattern is any two or three legged pullback. Therefore, take any two or three legged pullback to a support even on a weak bar. This enables us to take b50, b56 long for example. Note that this can only be done if the signal bar is small and you can use a price action stop (beyond signal bar) rather than a fixed stop.
73

FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2012
The hard road to consistency VIII - The tyranny of psychology
Many traders and other professionals in the trading world tell us that poor trading is mostly a psychological issue. While there's some truth in this statement, its incomplete and inaccurate. Otherwise, all psychologists should be fantastic traders. The reality of trading is a bit more complicated. Obviously, you first need a system and understanding of the mechanics of trading. You need good risk management and trade management practices because having the best psychological state of mind is no substitute for stops. I have searched far and wide for psychological articles regarding trading and found many books, articles and webinars, some with deep insight. However, most psychologists are not traders and their treatment of psychological issues is academic. Most of the material is generalized rather than actionable. For example: "Its more important to enhance well being than to reduce stress while trading" or "ask yourself before taking any action, am I doing whats in my best interest?"
74

Most of these observations are not actionable or otherwise useful. Benefits of prescriptions not related to actual trading such as marking off your trading area, feng shui, etc. may provide marginal benefits but should be viewed as borderline superstitions. The entire development of a trader is two stages:
1. Develop or learn a proven winning system 2. Strengthen the discipline to follow it
Developing a winning system is complicated, tedious and time consuming. You are usually better off finding a mentor and learn a proven system and adjust it to fit your personality. Once you have a system, discipline is what enables you to follow it closely. What is discipline? Discipline is simply the ability to resist short-term temptations in favor of long-term goals. Discipline is actionable. Just follow your system's rules and nothing else! Its most important to note that many systems work only during specific kinds of price action and you should not trade if preconditions are not met. For example, my system works very well on trending and large range days and works poorly on small range days. Fading systems work very well on trading range days and fail on trending days. Tick and bar scalpers can trade almost any price action but their win / trade is low and therefore they would need to lease a seat on the exchange to be profitable. The ability to sit out during price action not fit for your system is discipline. The ability to stick to your stops and your daily stop loss is discipline. The ability to resist poor behavior (chasing trades, adding to losers, shorting all the way to the top, etc) are discipline. When you chase a trade for example, you have overruled your judgement regarding passing up the preceding signal. You can never develop confidence in your market reading if you are easily swayed by a single bar. Accept that your system cannot detect every setup and at best you can catch a high percentage of moves. For example, do not buy b22 if you passed up b21 as a poor signal. Instead, add the observation to your list of things to investigate. Given enough samples, you will be able to pick on such moves eventually. You should have always anticipated a move, not react to it in urgency. Over time, these observations will add to your system and make it richer and you will grow as a trader.
75

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2012
The hard road to consistency IX -- The need to re-learn lessons over and over
A trader should be expected to constantly having to learn and re-learn lessons and this is just part of learning to trade. Some of this is due to being emotionally reactive. A trader who sees a huge bar like b8 may be tempted to sell below it and is likely to be stopped out. Similarly, a trader may short a bull trend all the way to the top and blow up an account. The first step is to understand what made you fail. Did you enter on fear of being left out instead of waiting for a setup? Are you deficient in some price action principles? (shorting all the way to the top = does not understand trends can go on indefinitely). Are your stops too tight? Are your targets too lofty? Do you enter too early? Do you love to pick tops and bottoms? Do you enter before a signal bar closes only to find that the good looking bull bar 30 seconds before bar close is now a bear bar? Do you enter on limit banking on your ability to predict reversals to the tick? Do you misread overlaps and chop as patterns? Whatever your errors may be, you need to first identify them. The next step is to figure out the right way to trade those situations. Ignoring actual reversals and taking the 1st pullback after the successful reversal alone eliminates over half the errors above. Using proper trade management eliminates most of the others. If you can get here, you should be breakeven to slightly profitable on most days. But to get here, you need to practice over and over and only sustained effort can break your bad habits. Days where price action exposes a large gap in your experience (counter-trend trading on trend days) are likely to still create large losing days and therefore, you should switch to SIM to collect data on these days. Identifying market structure responsible for huge losses and acting on them is a much harder task, but the fact that you switched to SIM after two losing trades enables you to stay in the game and figure out ways to identify and trade such exceptional days. Even so, there would be rare days such as the flash-crash that could still give you some trouble. But you would be far more confident in your trading and welcome the opportunity to learn from exceptional events.
76

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2012
The hard road to consistency X - The elusiveness of discipline
One of the great surprises in trading is that knowing what to do and the ability to do it are two unrelated things. Knowing what to do is knowledge, the ability to do it is skill. Its fairly easy to describe price action post-facto. Its simple to know to hold through a pullback or to exit on the next push if you aren't under pressure from holding a position. Traders need to work on improving their trading to be close to the ideal post-facto decision as much as possible. For the most part, this is a constant struggle. Information is always imperfect and decisions are often hard to make correctly. The process of working on yourself to make the best possible decision given the information you have is what traders do constantly and may be simply called building discipline. Discipline is more than just following your rules. Its also the ability to make correct decisions in the face of recent failures. Even the most seasoned traders would be impacted by successive failures or missed opportunities. For example, a trader who was stopped out on a 1CBO buy above b14 may be hesitant to buy b19. A trader who missed the reversal at b13 may enter a larger size on b27, which he may see as a deep 2L PB. Every loss and missed opportunity are likely to cause some distress in the mind of even the most experienced traders eventually forcing more and more mistakes. Similarly, a well executed trade may give a heightened sense of confidence and invincibility, forcing rash behavior. The resistance to such pressure is something that needs to be worked on and can only be developed with practice. The ability to see a trade setup independently of recent price action and your bout with the market is something you need to focus on constantly. The guide to doing this is to evaluate the market movements as information and disregard trading as something you need to do. "I need to make 2 points today" or "I better take one more trade so I can end the day without a loss" are terrible advices. Focus on the information you get from the market. Constantly work on keeping your evaluation as objective as possible. Ignore statements about the economy, foreign crises or anything else that other traders and the news are discussing. They have absolutely no weight compared to what the market tells you. Building discipline is like quitting smoking. Easy for those who don't have to do it but extremely hard for those who do need to do so. Constant slips of discipline and breaking your own rules are to be expected. Look at the few examples of success around you for inspiration and keep working at it. Know that even fractional improvements in discipline add up and build you up as a trader.
77

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2012
The Trader's Mind I - The Trading Contradiction
One of the real contradiction traders face is that the forces that attract people to trading are exactly what make them lose in trading.
For most traders, trading is attractive because they can:
ñ Make a lot of money ñ Get rich quickly ñ Have the best commute ñ Make a good living trading only 2 hrs every day. ñ Live anywhere ñ No bosses or employees needed ñ Be unaffected by economy, political shifts, natural disasters, etc. ñ No hard assets, office space, etc needed.
Do you want to have an income in the top 10% working for yourself two hours from your home while you can browse the computer? Well, who wouldn't?
Lets step back a moment and see how someone outside the trading world may evaluate these criteria:
ñ Make a lot of money - greedy ñ Get rich quickly - impatient ñ You have the best commute - lazy ñ Make a good living trading only 2 hrs every day. - super lazy ñ Live anywhere - mercurial ñ No bosses or employees needed - poor social skills ñ Be unaffected by economy, political shifts, natural disasters, etc. - fearful ñ No hard assets, office space, etc needed. - unattached.
As you can see, the worst developed personalities are naturally attracted to trading and its no wonder that 80% of traders lose everything they ever put into trading. To be successful, you need to fight the very qualities that brought you to trading in the first place. This is the contradiction that traders face on the very first day that they begin to trade.
This is how each of the above qualities impacts your trading:
ñ Greedy - Makes you stay in a winning trade too long until it becomes a loser. ñ Impatient - Forces trades, enter too early on poor signals ñ Lazy - does not work on improving one's understanding of the market and trading
system. ñ Mercurial - Emotional trading, revenge trading, chasing price with every turn. ñ Poor social skills - Inability to learn from the experiences of other traders ñ Fearful - Cant take trades, exit trades too early, unable to hold through a pullback ñ Unattached - Jump from trading system to trading system whenever current system
gives a bad day
I know of no single trader who started without at least half of these afflictions.
78

Once you acknowledge that just choosing to be a trader automatically sets you up for failure, you have the opportunity to amend the very qualities that brought you to trading and modify yourself to be the very opposite and thus be successful.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2012
The Trader's Mind II - The Rush
When a trader first begins trading, regardless of whether he is successful, he experiences a rush. A trader who has beginner's luck is likely to experience exhilaration of suddenly coming into money that he never imagined. This leads him to think trading is easy and make a conscious or unconscious commitment to trading as a profession. The rush of trading is similar to the rush of gambling and other addictive behavior. This will lead him to make significant investments when he doesn't really comprehend the kind of risk for each of these investments. Even a cautious investor will risk more and move to riskier investments until failure hits. This sort of behavior is automatic and part of human nature and most people find this understandable. What may be unexpected is that intense emotional experiences can cause sustained changes in the person's behavior. The trader will crave the excitement and rush and continue to engage in trading just to feel the rush of trading. This will automatically put a trader on the track to some very bad habits. For example, most new traders overtrade. A consistent winning trader may take four to ten trades a day while a new trader is likely to take 40. This is because the initial rush is driving the trading behavior. A second common habit is trading out of boredom. The trader's need for excitement and knowledge of what is possible drives him to seek that experience over and over again. As a result, the trader does not even realize he has overtraded. He may have thought that he has taken 10 trades and be shocked to find that he has taken 40 trades. Once a trader introduces himself to the trading world in such a fashion, he already doomed to overtrade and go on tilt. Many traders blow their accounts in a few days and are shocked when it happens. If you are in this stage, stop and ask yourself if you really want to trade to escape the drudgery of your life. Getting a motorcycle is far cheaper. Trading has to be a deliberate, carefully considered business decision. You need to think like the casino, not like the gambler.
79

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2012
The Trader's mind III - Eagerness and Dispair
Eventually, the trader settles in and realizes that trading is not easy but he can see patterns much more clearly. This is chop; this is a breakout and so on. However, in the eagerness to trade, the trader enters too early. The market stops out the trader and gives a better entry and resumes the move. The trader may go into dispair at this point. An emotionally sensitive trader may have also reversed his position, thinking that the failure of a great setup is a very strong signal and may get stopped out a second time. If this happens enough times, the trader will find his confidence shaken and weak. The good news is that the reason the market goes where you expect it to go is because you are now able to read the market. The bad news is that the human brain is extremely efficient at recognizing patterns and will alert you as soon as it can. This is a survival advantage. The earlier you spot a predator or prey, the better your chances of having a good meal and seeing another sunrise. Because of this, you will see the pattern a lot earlier and you eagerness will force you to act prematurely. The right mental adjustment you need to do is to separate the pattern recognition from the action. Once a pattern is recognized, take it as directional advice and wait for a definitive signal. Some traders manage by using large stops. While this may work ok for many, I prefer precise entries since it maximizes my reward to risk (R multiple or RX). A larger RX in various kinds of price action is essential for me personally for trading large size with confidence. Patience and the willingness to pass on a potential large move are essential for consistency. Once you are able to wait patiently and make a rational choice regarding any signal, you may take slightly lower probability trades if the RX is statistically very large such as 1PB in the first hour. Patience -- the ability to wait for the right setup depends on detachment -- the ability to pass on a trade and miss a large profit. Combined with discipline, the ability to follow your own rules by resisting short-term temptations to meet long term goals is key trading behaviors for success.
80

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012
The Trader's mind IV - The bargain
If the mad rush on black Friday's shopping is any lesson, humans love a bargain. Who doesn't like to get a $100 item for $80? That's 20% off! You can use the $20 to get something else. Humans like bargains because it maximizes your purchasing power and is an inbuilt efficiency behavior. Efficiency is not limited to shopping. All things being equal, you should obviously choose a toaster that toasts quicker, a commute that is shorter and so on. A person who can more efficiently spend his resources has higher survival ability and efficient use of our resources is therefore an inbuilt characteristic of humans. When it comes to trading, a trader's efficient mind makes him want to buy low and sell high. Buying low is a good thing, unless you are in a down trend and the price is going further down. The bargain hunter forces the trader to enter into dangerous trading patterns such as:
ñ Bottom picking -- It fell to $3 from $10, what a deal! (All kinds of counter-trend trading)
ñ Adding on to a loser -- At $1 its 3 times cheaper, my profit will be 3x as big when it goes back to $10
ñ Entering before a signal bar forms -- its going to be a bull bar anyway, may as well buy now to save 3t
I have personally struggled for months to break these habits before I was successful. The key element is to realize that the price is not what's important, its the difference between the entry price and the exit price and the probability that your stop is not hit in between. Focus on probability and nothing else. Measure probability of success by taking SIM trades before you take action. You need to have a modicum of discipline to do this. Focusing on probability will automatically shift your mind in the right direction.
81

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012
The Trader's mind V - The anchor
Humans do not actually have any ability to measure intrinsic value of any item. Practically all estimated values are fuzzily calculated from any claims of value the person may have encountered.
For example, if I show an object never seen before and ask what the value could be, people are likely to go blank. When pressed further, they may guess based on its size, weight, shininess and beauty. You may have grandparents that long for the good old days when coffee was 5 cents a cup. The entire notion of paying $5 at starbucks seems absurd to them. And to actually line up to pay that ridiculous amount is quite insane in their opinion. This because your grandpa's valuation circuitry is stuck in the 1950s. A similar thing happens to all of us on smaller timescales. This is called anchoring. When you see an item (say a pound of coffee) for sale at $5, you expect it to remain at $5. If suddenly it jumps to $10, you wont buy it right then, you wait for prices to come back down. But if the price remains at $10 for a few months, you are likely to give in and buy it for $10. Your mind is now anchored to the new price. Anchoring is subtly employed by stores all the time. The 50% sale tells us that the fancy hat at $200 is cheap because its real value is $400. We are so lucky to get it half-off. Why, its like we just earned $200. All we have to do to earn it is to spend $200. The store has subtly anchored the value of the article to $400 in your mind. If there was no sale, you wouldn't buy it because $200 would look expensive. This is why when JC Penny decided to forego sales in favor of everyday low prices, they took a huge loss. Nobody has any reason to buy because nothing looks cheap. Anchoring is what makes markets stay in trading ranges (coffee should be $5) and trend ($10 is the new normal). Anchoring is also why pullbacks, especially deep pullbacks work very well (50% off sale). In fact, anchoring is why price action works very well in general. For a trader, this means that he can simply imagine he's either a seller of buyer of a pound of coffee or any other item that he is familiar with and correctly guess the behavior of the crowd most of the time. If the price gets too high or too low suddenly, there will be resistance and the price will pullback. However, if it stays there for a long enough duration, it can become the new normal. Deep and sharp pullbacks are more likely to continue and slow slides are likely to eventually break a trend for this very reason. Once you can understand how price moves, you will find price action far easier to read and understand.
82

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2012
The Trader's mind VI - Conviction and doubt
In the world outside trading, persistence and conviction are good traits. A persistent man is likely to solve the problem, get the date with the woman of his choice or get a job. We judge people's conviction in their positions by how well they can defend their own views. A telling example is the characterization of an election candidate as a flip-flopper resulting in their election loss. Holding fast a misinformed opinion is seen as a sign of strong ethos than switching position based on new evidence.
Your conviction or faith in your opinion endears you to your social clique. Conservatives feel comfortable hanging with other conservatives and greens with other greens. This piece of human nature is something we learn very young and use it to adopt various facets of our identity and stick to it lifelong.
I'm a Mets fan. I'm a libertarian. I'm against the death penalty and so on. The adoption of identity facets is an automatic social behavior and its function is primarily social.
When this behavior is carried to the trading world, it works against the trader from the very beginning. Trading is ultimately a non-social function as far as your account is concerned. Your losses are your own and forming an opinion and sticking to it in the face of hell or high water works against you every time.
A trader who is convinced the market has gone up too far may short the market and when it stops him out, try again on the next high and eventually short his way to the top. A seasoned trader often does not have an opinion as to the general strength or weaknesses of the market and follows the principle: "Trade what you see, not what you think."
To develop the ability to abandon a damaging view when you are wrong, adopt a rule where if you are wrong twice, you won't trade in the same direction until the price moves substantially away from the current location. Remember that you are always wrong and the market is always right.
The flip side of conviction is doubt. A trader who has a long series of losses (including consistent winning traders) are subject to losing confidence in their system, their ability to read the market and follow their own system. Such traders are subject to buyer's regret right after entering a trade, being shaken out on even the smallest pullback and tightening stops too early and thereby exiting on a loss just before the market makes a huge move in the direction of their trade.
Even when the market moves in their favor, they are unable to hold for many points. The very first pullback causes them great distress and forces them to exit at a small profit. Imagine seeing an open profit of four points and then panicing and exiting at +1 when the market pulls back. To build confidence and enable yourself to hold through pullbacks, always take a partial profit on the first push in your direction. Especially during the first hour, reversals can be abrupt and take out your stop and change your winning trade to a losing trade, which damages your confidence even more.
The partial profit enables you to hold your runner beyond the first pullback after which it gets easier since your swing stop moves into profit once the next swing point forms. Taking partial profits and sticking to your trade management rules builds confidence.
In general, you need to work on abandoning your precious opinions regarding the economy, news, the government or anything else you think may be impacting the market. These things may impact the market long-term but you have to realize that your opinions and identity relations are worthless for trading the market. You can only rely on what you see, your trade management rules and your discipline.
83

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012
The Trader's Mind VII - The Chase
So far we have seen inherent character issues of a trader that work very well in the outside world but sets up the trader for failure in the trading world. These are character issues built over years and are hard to shake. However, with careful planning of rules and discipline, a trader can avoid triggering them. For example, entering only on or after the breakout beyond the signal bar, we can prevent a trader's bargain hunting behavior from causing losses.
In this post we look at a complementary part of the trader's mind, his reactivity to the market. When a trader is watching the market and is expecting a big move up, he is disciplined and waits for a good signal or pattern. Bar after bar forms and the trader chooses to pass up since they do not meet his criteria. Suddenly out of the blue a large breakout bar occurs and the trader is caught unprepared, he simply cannot stand idly by as the market apparently is shooting up. He gives in and buys way above where he would have bought if the bar was acceptable. The market promptly stops him out in a deep intra bar pullback and either fails or resumes its march up.
This is a familiar scene many traders have played over and over. When the market moves in a way you did not expect and you feel forced to act, you are likely to make a mistake. Even if you are not stopped out, if the bar starts pulling back, your confidence will be weak because this is not a trade you have taken many times and is not a natural setup and management for you. Your mind is very vulnerable to making several mistakes at this point. One way to handle this is to realize that a weak breakout will fail and a strong breakout is likely to break into a trend and the first pullback in the trend is a far better entry.
Another classical reactivity is to a prolonged channel. You see a heavily overlapped or other poor setup in a channel and take a trade and are stopped out. You enter again and again, trying to get it right this time and lose several times before you can finally enter it just right. This leads to a phyrric victory, since your gain from the winning trade is unlikely to be larger than the accumulated losses. Traders often "persist" since they know that the direction is right, they just need to figure how to enter the channel correctly. Unless you want to fade counter-trend entry bars and scalp, the only reasonable way to enter a channel is to wait for a an attempted break of the channel or wait for the channel to break into a trend.
Realize that being right about direction is insufficient. Trading chatrooms are full of traders predicting an up or down move accurately, without being able to find a good place to enter with a tight stop. Entering with a wide stop may allow you to enter nearly anywhere but such trading carries the risk of large drawdowns and is unsuitable for new traders. Patience and the willingness to sit out until your setup appears is paramount to consistency.
In the world outside trading, persistence and chasing your dreams may be great characteristics. For trading, patience and discipline are far more important.
84

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012
The Trader's mind VIII - The basics of emotions
What exactly are emotions and why do we feel them? Emotions are a form of selfcommunication. When our ancestors were primitive creatures facing an uncertain world, the mind would sense imminent danger and opportunity and activate the physical changes need for immediate action.
Obvious examples are when a predator is sensed, the body needs to quickly switch to fight-orflight mode. Similarly, when food or mating opportunities are sighted, the mind becomes alert and eager.
Practically all your emotions and behavior stem from millions of years of survival adaptation. In the ancient world, reacting to good or bad situations immediately and appropriately meant life instead of death. Modern humans rarely face such challenges and have developed some degree of control over their emotions. Occasionally, the limbic system keeps escalating emotion and may be hard for you to control it.
Emotions are about expectancy and preparedness. Events that you are well aware are likely to happen and are prepared for do not cause strong emotional reaction. For example, if someone close to you dies suddenly, you may feel shock and dispair and cry for days. On the other hand, if they were terminally ill for a couple of years, their death may actually bring you closure and relief instead. Similarly, if you do not win the lottery, you don't really go into an emotional fit because you never expected to win. But when you win, you are delighted.
Events that you are unprepared for can cause your body to go into "just do something" mode. For example, countries where there are fire-prevention drills see systematic evacuation on a fire alarm while those without may see stampedes.
What does this mean to me as a trader? When you are watching the market, your mind is in a mode similar to the mind looking for mating opportunities. You'll probably hit on every potential trade till one works. Once you are in a trade, you watch anxiously for prey or potential danger. This compels you to exit trades early with no loss than to stand your ground and be stopped out. When you are stopped out, your mind acts like a parent gazelle whose calf has been attacked by wolves.. Your mind goes into "just do something" crisis mode. This is also called classic tilt mode, when a couple of losses force the trader to abandon all risk management and trade management rules and just try to get his money back.
Lets call these three emotions lust, fear and desperation. Of these desperation is the hardest to control. Your mind is in a state where its willing to go to great lengths and take severe risks to get back its precious young. You will do the most damage to your account in this state. Fear prevents you from following through with your trading plan and you will end up with small winners and large losers and you will be a net loser over the long term. Lust traps you into poor trade after poor trade and your account will bleed slowly from a thousand cuts.
So how do I address this in my trading plan? Once you understand the forces driving you, you can work on managing them. One way to manage this is to try to observe yourself and see how you act. The very act of observation will change the observed (the observer effect).
Desperation: When you are in desperation, you are unlikely to be able to observe yourself and think rationally. Having someone else observe you will often help with a reality check. This could be a mentor or trading buddy. Its important you disclose all your trades to your observer or it wont have the full effect. Your trading buddy can watch out for signs of poor emotional state and support you with feedback. Having a maximum trade count per day and a maximum loss limit will greatly protect your account from an untimely demise.
85

Fear: More important than entering a trade is what you do after you enter. If the trade was ill-advised and caused by chasing an unexpected large bar, you should probably just exit at the best possible price. If the trade was a legitimate setup, you need to follow your trade management with discipline. Only discipline will help you overcome fear and develop confidence. Making trade management a mechanical affair with fixed stops and targets frees your mind of fear. Lust: Before you enter a trade and before you have encountered a losing trade for the day, your mind is best prepared to make clear judgements. If you can read the market reasonably well, take every clear setup until you hit your daily loss limit. When starting out, your read of the market will naturally need a lot of improvement and losses are routine. What you do not want to do is to react to unexpected moves. Any trade you took on an expected move is far more likely to be successful than a trade taken on unexpected moves. Tame your desire to be part of the action. Only take well defined setups. Start with one setup and add more with time. Naturally, these are not the only emotions you face. Greed, which makes you hold well beyond your expected target is another great killer. Hope, which persuades you to loosen your stops prevents you from developing any kind of discipline. All of these need to be understood and addressed. In summary, realize that your emotions are telling you that an event occurred that you did not expect and were unprepared for. Learn from the event and incorporate it into your trading plan rather than reacting to it immediately by trading. Use understanding, preparation and discipline to tame your emotions.¤
86

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012
The Trader's Mind IX - The consistent trader
The consistently profitable trader replaces eagerness and impatience with patience and caution. The simplest thing you can do psychologically for your account is to prevent getting into bad trades in the first place. Never be eager to trade but when your setup shows up, act without hesitation. This seems counter-intuitive, but this is how many predators work. You may have seen shows on discovery channel where a camouflaged fish stays without moving until a prey comes close enough and then it jumps suddenly and eats it. That's basically what the trader tries to be: patient but alert. With some exceptions, its usually better to miss a trade than to take a trade and be stopped out. Once in a trade, a winning trader simply follows fixed trade management rules. For example, price either fills a fixed target or stops the trader out. There should be little discretion here, since your judgement, which was strongest before you got into a trade is now at its weakest. Every tick against a weak trader makes him panic and want to get out for breakeven or tiny profit. Every tick in his favor makes him push the target further out. The consistent trader does neither. Its not that he is any superior, its just that he uses mathematics to ensure that his odds of reaching a profit are higher than his odds of being stopped out and over time, he accumulates winnings regardless of what happens on this individual trade. The individual trade does not matter and losses are part of trading. Do not try to use your judgement now, its at its weakest. Use well tested trade management rules. After a win, a poor trader is jubilant and will trade larger size and weaker setups (trading the house money). After a losing trade he is in dispair and curiously may do the exact same thing: trade larger and weaker setups to "make the money back." This is a well travelled shortcut to a blown account. A consistent trader does no such thing. He simply tries to go back to pre-trade mode where he is patient yet alert. A winning trader also knows when to stop for the day. Its utterly important not to have large losing days and too many losing trades in a day. Your mind cannot after a point control your emotions because you may not even realize you are in a state of desperation. A winning trader stops trading at a well defined daily loss limit. Eventually, the winning days become larger than the losing days and a trader becomes profitable. For some traders this is a sudden change but for most its gradual and occurs with improvement in their trading skill.
87

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2012
The Trader's Mind X - The transition to success
So now that you understand the differences in psychological makeup of a new trader versus a successful trader, let's see how to transition your mind from the former to the latter.
Replace lust with caution and skepticism. The very first step is to limit the number of trades you take. When traders say that overtrading is a very common trading error, thats only half-correct. Many of the ills of trading poorly show up as overtrading. By limiting the number of trades you can make, you prevent the amount of damage you can do to your account in one sitting. But more important, your mind needs to shift from getting into this move to getting into the biggest move of the day. Since there are only one or two big moves in the first couple of hours and perhaps another in the last hour and half, your approach switches to looking for quality trades and large swing trades. What this means for your account is that despite a low win rate, you can still be a profitable trader if your wins are at least twice as large as your losses. Your goal as a new trader should be to exclusively focus on large moves. If you are unsure the move is going to be large, its ok not to take the trade. Don't worry if you stand aside and the move ends up being big. That is part of trading. Learn to let it go. Similarly, you will be stopped out a couple of times and the very next move will be large (or not). That's ok. You are in the process of learning to judge exactly where the large move is. With experience it will come naturally (but not without sufficient screen time).
Replace fear with discipline. Once your discrimination and judgement get better, your larger wins and smaller losses will make you a better selector of trades however, your trade management needs to be extremely disciplined. Note that as long as you are trading in a trend (HH and HL or LL and LH) with volatility (decent size swings and bars) and near support (TL/ema/swingpoint), your chances of success should be slightly greater than 50% at the very least. Add good pattern and signal bar and your win rate should be around 60% or even more. Your decision to enter the trade is all the processing your mind needs to make. Once you set a stop and target, do not change them. Your mind is vulnerable when in a trade and susceptible to errors of judgement. You should simply let the math work for you and let the market either fill your target or take your stop out. If your setups are truly 60%, you will accumulate winnings in the long run.
Replace desperation with acceptance. Many professionally successful people who come to trading believe rightly that perseverance is a virtue and its their dogged persistence that made them successful. Realize that in trading, perseverance is inapplicable and desperation is probably what you will slip into. Learn to accept that today is a losing day and stop trading. Take a trading buddy's help if you wish. Disclose your losing trades and let them tell you to stop. Soon, you will be able to stop on your own. Similarly, do not be overconfident on successive wins and end up taking untested setups. Many traders have their large losing days right after their large winning days. If you are susceptible to these, just take a day off or only take one trade the next day after a big winning or losing day, win or lose.
Refine your method continuously. Over time, you can make slight changes to the above rules and fine tune your setups. For example, you should always keep track of the success rate of your individual setups and your average win or loss per setup. That way, passing a lower expectancy setup or taking a good setup with a questionable signal bar become easier. Always keep your trading goals in mind when you refine your methods. For example, you should prefer to refine your system for higher probability than to get a better price since adding a contract to a higher probability trade is a better way to make more money than getting an extra couple of ticks on existing size. Over time, your approach and mental state will shift to that of a successful trader. However, this is not easy and will be a constant struggle. Even after you have been winning for a while, its possible to have slip ups and lapse into your old habits. You should always be on guard and protect your mind from harmful habits as long as you are a trader.
88

Nine Transitions .............................................. Price Action trading on the Emini
2010
89

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2010
A hard Wedge reversal
Due to the large gap on the open, I could trade the 1 minute chart on the open. The opening range (b1 to b8) had a failed Breakout with double bottom on b15. From there the price moved up three pushes to a wedge (W) at b30. This short could be held until the W reversal further in the day.
90

A reversal bar above a large gap is always a good trade for a scalp at least. Today, your scalp would have worked but your swing portion would be stopped out for breakeven. On days like this, many traders miss a good runner unless they re-enter on the 1 minute chart, which provided a W entry. Even on the 5 minute chart, a micro-W was clear due to the three spikes up.
The double bottom up down at b11,12 is a possible reversal, however with 5 bear bars against the buyer, it ended up working like a trading range. A short above which proved successful.
b18 technically was a W, but its signal and entry bars closed weak. This led to a further A2 short off b24 on a less than desirable looking signal bars.
b29 was a very strong wedge and was a great potential swing trade. So were the A2s at b40 and b65.
Shorting b22 and b55 proved profitable today, however in general these trades are dangerous. There was possibly a W reversal before b22 and b55 could have been a trap for one more leg up. These trades can be taken with lighter size only but leaving out lesser probability trades is the best option in the long run.
91

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2010
Slow down on Soft trend days
Some days, such as 2010-09-09 are hard trend days. Signals are clear and well trades usually succeed with trend or counter-trend. In contrast a soft trend day such as 2010-09-10, operates much slower with lots of overlapping bars, trapping traders in both directions. Except the clear A2 at b27, the rest were all terrible looking signals for longs. Nearly every short signal failed and counter-trend traders who shorted all the way to the top lost terribly. Faders do well on days with overlapping bars with lots of tail. Today was possibly a great day to enter on limit on failed L2.
92

Another way to get around overlapping days is to slow down and move to a 15m chart. The trading style that would get you chopped up on a day like this would work great on a slower chart. Today gave an A2 long at b9 and a failed L2 at b24. As with slower chart, you do have fewer signals, but they do tend to work better. As you can see, there was not a single bar that dipped below its previous bar all the way to bar 21.
Just as you slow down in a slow market, you should speed up in a fast market. The opening hour is usually fast moving and slowing it down on a 1 minute chart will reveal some interesting trades. The opening bars created a trading range and b27 broke above it and failed, giving a failed Break Out (fBO) signal. This move went to a measured move of the size of the range.
93

MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2010
Trading range day
What looked like a promising trend day after strong signal and entry bars turned to a small range day pretty quickly. The first reversal often looks terrible, but will turn around and test the high of the day. b16 broke above the HOD and gave a possible breakout failure (BF) on bar 25, however there was very little follow through on the lunch hour. The triangle consolidation broke into an expanding triangle on b52, which led to a second attempt to break above the HOD. When the second attempt failed, the market quickly dropped. Generally TR failures give a measured move of the range size, so we should expect the price to hit 1228 or so overnight or tomorrow.
94

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 14, 2010
FOMC day
Today opened weak, with a doji bar at the ema. Given the strong move late into yesterday, there was some chance of a second leg down. However, b1 had false breakouts on both sides and gave a first reversal signal with micro-wedge (mW) on b5. This was probably the best trade of the AM. The next pullback was a mW to the ema ending in a down up signal bar on b21. This was good for a scalp. Although this did eventually give +2, anyone who had a swing stop probably exited when the market went against them the second time on b33. There usually is an overshoot for a tight trading range (TTR) to reverse. A rising TTR is usually a wedge, and the FOMC announcement triggered an overshoot of the Trend Channel Line (TCL) on b58. b62 was a very strong signal (A2, W1P, BP of ema) and everyone took it. The breakeven stop did not get hit and the trade could be held till the overshoot/climax of b74. By all counts, today's FOMC action was tame at least for the first bar on news. The TTR made breakout trading of the FOMC announcement impractical since there wasn't sufficient energy in the market. A TTR breakout usually fails, so it would be a bad idea to breakout trade the Fed. Repeated selling late in the day is usually a bad sign for the price and this may mean some down days in the near future.
95

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2010
Traps
Today was a rather tough day but those who took the weak signals did well. b1 was a bullish reversal bar inside yesterdays range with not much of a gap to speak of and therefore does not qualify to be a first reversal. Many such bars end up failing quickly and taking out its low (such as 2010-12-06). However b2,3 trapped buyers and sellers and a buy above b3 was probably OK. b6 was a breakout bar and there was a good chance the price would go to a MM before it reversed. That's why neither the L1 at b8 nor L2 at b10 were good shorts. b12 could be interpreted as an A2 long and there could be possibly 2 legs up but there were not. b15 was a poor W signal followed by a terrible looking W1P at b19. the W1P broke out to the down side and a tight trading range gave an A2 short. This was the easiest trade of the day. After taking out the low of yesterday, there was a wedge pullback (WP) that gave a gap (G) inside bar short signal. b49 was a possible A2 short and some traders probably got stopped out on b54 before it resumed down. Market gave a scalp to b44 longs before it turned down. An overshoot at b61 and buying convinced most shorts to get out below it on b66. The scalp on b66 worked, but its a riskier trade since there is not much time left for a swing. The first pullback after Wedge (W1P) at b70 is the better trade.
96

Traps: 1. Today there were a few traps. b1 buyers got a terrible entry bar and were stopped out if they moved their stops below the entry bar. Lesson: do not move your stop to breakeven until the price has moved 5t. 2. b17 shorts who thought they were shorting L2 were stopped out on b19. There was no price action entry on b16 since it did not go below outer bar b14. There is no good L1 until traders have entered. b20 is the correct L2 entry (below b19) 3. 49 was a possible L2. However when the body is inside the previous body, its a variation of an inside bar and the entry would be below b48.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2010
The expanding triangle open
When the market opens near yesterday's close with a marginal bar such as today's doji, the market will try to break out both sides until it encounters a hard reversal. Todays open was a tick away from yesterday and it was very likely the breakout of the doji would fail and is tradeable if it gives a decent entry. The ii bar on b4 with a shaved close was a good entry. The news related down up reversal was 4 points tall and this means there is some risk that it will turn into a trading range. Two legs up provided an A2 short at b11. However, the entry bar b10 closed strong, so there was some chance they would buy its low (purple line). A shallower pullback at b17 was an A2 long and very good setup. The market shot up +4 and turned into a TTR. b30 broke above the TTR and gave a BP at b36 ii. Since there was no overshoot, b42 would be a poor short for W. b53 gave a double top but it was a marginal short since there was no demonstration of bear strength. A Double top pullback (DP) ii short at b56 was also marginal but could be taken with an option to reverse above the DT. b63 was a marginal G and b66 was a marginal G2 entry since they forced a buy above and mid flag. The down up bars at b72 after three pushes down was a good signal. Technically, this was the first bull bar below the ema that triggered a long position. Price took out the high of day (HOD) and retraced all of yesterday's down move.
97

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 17, 2010
Trading breakouts and tight trading ranges
For a long time, trading Breakouts (BO) and tight trading ranges (TTR) had eluded me. Trading these requires quite a bit of practice, but when you get it right, you can catch a good run with low risk. The trick to trading breakouts is to trade only breakout pullbacks and occasionally, failed break outs (fBO). The safest trades are breakouts that try to reverse twice and fail. These have the added benefit of being a 2 legged pullback after a breakout and are therefore a high probability trade. Another thing to note is the context in which the breakout is taking place. Did the market try to sell off a couple of times and fail? In that case, the breakout is likely to succeed. Note that almost every breakout today failed. Today opened with a bear trend bar below the ema. Many traders short below this, assuming there is a good chance of a bear trend from first bar, but when yesterday's close is within reach, its unlikely to go down before making at least two attempts to close it. The breakout of b1 failed but could not go above b1 and stop out the b1 traders. Just as b2 was a failed break below b1, b3 was a failed break below b2 and so on. b4 was an H1 variant and set up an L1. b7 gave both an H2 and an L2. With two legs down and any b1 traders still in play would have exited with their scalp profit so limit traders may have bought here. The breakout attempt at b11 and b13 failed twice and setup a fBO short on an ii setup. The third push down at b16 gave a weak wedge (W) setup and ended up with a weak entry bar and this meant it did not break into a runaway trend. There was a breakout attempt above the range at b26, which tried to fail twice on b28 and then on b32. b31 triggered the H1 but b34 did not trigger the H2 since it did not go above b32. b36 set up an H2, a failed L2 and a 2 legged breakout pullback. This was the strongest signal all day. A break above the range often goes up to a measured move(MM) as it did today. At the MM of 1241, it tried to break out twice at b58 and b63 and failed giving a fBO entry below b67.
98

MONDAY, DECEMBER 20, 2010
Trend Reversal
When a trend bar tries to close a medium sized gap (larger than one recent bar but smaller than a recent day), there is a good chance the opening trend will reverse sometime in the first hour. This is because buyers would not buy above a small gap, expecting it to close. When it does close, its possible they will move in. Today's b5 setup a 2 legged pullback after a trend bar and gave a short entry near the bottom of the flag. Conservative traders should pass this since we could see a fBO of the range and have the market move up. However, with the close of yesterday within range in the first hour, there was a good chance it would work. The first reversal at b21 was possibly a W4,19,21. A 2 or 3 tick doji after a strong close usually works like a W1P and is generally good for a swing trade.A first channel breakout at b31 was bought, but the buyers could not scalp out nor were they stopped out, making b38 an A2 long. This was the second swingable entry today. A DP at b54 broke above a poor signal bar and overshot a trendchannel line breaking above the high of the day. This breakout failed in a W, giving a W1P and A2 on the way down.
99

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2010
The glacier
A glacier grinds on very slowly, destroying anything that stands in its way. Occasionally it seems to recede a bit, but before you know, it continues with the grind. For some reason there are only bullish glaciers. Bears tend to fall quickly, which makes traders love shorting more than going long. How do you recognize a glacier early in the day? A failed L2 is a good indication. A shaved bear bar that does not tick below is another good indication. One and two tick pullbacks below previous bars is a very strong indication. Today, all these signs made themselves known within the first hour. The first failed L2 gave the first strong buy signal of the day. A very obvious 2 legged pullback near the ema on b22 was probably the easiest to read signal of the day. The hardest signal to read was the failed L2 and then A2 at b67. When there are overlapping and inside bars, every inside bar is a possible signal. If it does trigger, it becomes an L or H. Basically b55 triggered the first H1 and b59 and b65 triggered an L1 and an L2. b68 triggered an H2 and almost failed. Reading H and L into TTRs is very error-prone. Its simpler to look at them in terms of breakouts and failed breakouts. b55 attempted a first breakout. b58 and b65 were two attempts to fail the breakout. A failed breakout should result in a measured move down, so both the failures were unsuccessful. At this point the next breakout is a high probability candidate for success. The next breakout occurred at b68 and given the overlap, a pullback was to be expected. b75 inside bar was a very strong exit signal and a good place to close out a slow and steady day. A glacier is seen by some as buying by institutions and as distribution by others. Often two or three days after a glacier there is a down day.
100

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 22, 2010
Another soft trend/glacier day
Today's open very close to close of yesterday should have cautioned traders about a possible repeat grind day. The failed 1t L1 on bar 2 and L2 on bar 4 confirmed today's price action prognosis. Every failed L2 could be bought. b32 was a rare A2 long but it was a horizontal flag signaling a possible final flag. The possible W and W1P short entries at bars b38 and b42 were dangerous and are not to be taken given the terrible risk/reward ratio.A deep pullback to b52 provided the first deep pullback of the day and was the easiest trade of the day. Aggressive traders probably also bought the b76 A2 into the close. All in all, today was a long only day with bars that were only a few ticks long. Buying on limit expecting an L2 to fail worked every time today except the obvious b43.
101

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 23, 2010
Small doji day
Today closed at its open after moving up and down, making a doji or plus sign on the daily chart. The first two bars were were an obvious trading range, so the market would have to hold above it and give a two legged pullback for a buy or the more likely scenario of the breakout failing. The breakout did fail and it tested the other end of the range. At this point the market tried to fail it twice, once on the move upto bar14 and then again on the move upto bar 22. At this point, it was a two legged pullback in a bear move near the ema and therefore a legitimate short signal. However this was close to lunchtime and there was a very good chance there wouldn't be any real move for a couple of hours. It was a good decision to wait for the next signal. The market moved three pushes down to double bottom at b40, indicating a possible reversal or move up. However, it could not give a successful double bottom pullback and thus broke below the double bottom which normally results in a measured move down the size of the range, which the price went to the tick.At this point, we also had a TCL overshoot, so even tho the reversal bar was weak, it was probably an acceptable buy. The first pullback after the wedge (W1P) forced a buy at the top of a flag, but it was probably ok, since the flag was only two ticks long. Cautious traders could stay out and enter on the A2 and double bottom at ema on b77.
102

MONDAY, DECEMBER 27, 2010
The importance of catching the early move
Often, the first good signal is the only one that is worth taking for a swing. Learning to take the first signal correctly will also start you off in the black, allowing you to pass on anything less than great trades. Today was a triangle open. Expanding triangle opens are more common, triangle opens are less so. Today presented exactly one entry that I would take, a second entry long. A second entry is any entry that gives an entry at the same price as the previous entry, provided the previous entry is valid and the entry bar closes strong. For example, todays b2 went above a reversal bar (a bullish signal) and closed strong. The bar was a 7t shaved bar and there was a good chance a pullback could be bought for a swing. b5 presented a stronger signal bar compared to b1 (shaved bull bar with 1t tail). b1 and b2 made up the opening range and b3 was a failed breakout above it. b5 effectively gave a breakout pullback entry. The weak 1t pullback below b7 and its failure was two attempts to fail the breakout and buying above b8 was a high probability trade regardless of it being a bear bar. The price moved quickly to a measured move (MM) to twice the opening range as expected. The rest of the day gave only poor entries and while I could read them, they were not worth the risk:reward ratio. While horizontal TTR usually breaks in the direction of the previous trend, b3 and b12 had already made two pushes up and there was the risk that the push up would fail before it could reach a scalp. Rest of the moves came off one or two tick doji bars and are often unreliable. A cautious trader who missed b5 or b8 would probably not take any other trades today. A possible exception is b42 double bottom at the ema and BT of the TTR, but even that should be avoided on a day that does not promise to be a large range day.
103

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 28, 2010
The first reversal
When there is a large gap (larger than a recent day) and the first bar forms a reversal bar trying to reverse the gap, it can be considered a first reversal. Today was only marginally a first reversal since the gap was relatively small in terms of points and the bar closed just above the high of yesterday. When there is some doubt as to whether a reversal bar is worth taking, it sometimes helps to see the first five bars of a 1 minute chart.
104

As you can see from the chart, there was no bull strength during the first 5 1 minute bars. No bars went above the previous bar or closed up strong. Such a first bar is worth shorting. On 2010-12-21, we had a similar bar but shorts below it ended up in a one tick failure (1tf). Yes, the bar overlapped the previous day just a bit, but that by itself is not a show stopper.
Zooming into a 1m chart shows us how the bar was different. The first three minutes had strong bull action and bulls simply saw the bear bars as a buying opportunity at a better price.
105

Especially on a possibly small range day, its important to get in early on a possible AM move. First reversals are an important part of this trading principle.
106

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 29, 2010
Opening range Breakout and pullback
Often the first bar alone acts as an opening range. The first breakout beyond the bar fails and the price attempts to break the other end. If the other end closes strong, i.e., closes above the range and gives two or three bars that do not reverse the breakout, there is a very strong chance that the eventual pullback can be traded for a swing position to the measured move of the size of the range, especially if the pullback is two legged. Today was a small range version of the scenario. Bar1's low was breached but turned into a first reversal. The correct entry was above b3, which did not trigger but we did get an entry above b5. When there is a large overlap among the reversal bars, often the price comes down to take out the stop below the entry bar as it did today on b22. When the distance between the low of the entry bar and the prior swing low is small, this is a good limit entry with a stop below the previous swing low. Regardless, the pullback into b22 was a 2 legged pullback to a higher low and brought in buyers. The price moved three legs to a final flag (FF) at b43 to 49. A double top at b58 was a failed attempt to break above the FF. The market ended up making a second attempt to breakout of the range and failed to below the low of the day.
107

Trend respawn
When the final bars of a day constitute a sharp move, i.e., a sharp trend begins very late in the day and the day closes without breaking a trend line, there is a good chance that the next will show some follow through. Additionally, if the next day opens with a little or no gap, you may be able to trade the early bars like a continuation of yesterday's move. Seen from this context, the move to b4 was a 2 legged pullback in a bear trend. The ii signal bar at the ema was a very good setup for a short. The move from b10 to b15 broke the trend line and we ended up testing the low of the previous move. A trendline break without an overshoot usually ends in a trading range and today the range was between b10 low and b15 high. b29 was also a failed breakout of this range. After this, bar 46 gave an A2 long. It was also the second 2 legged higher low after 34. A failed breakout usually tries to breakout of the other side of the range, so a 2 point move was to be expected. The breakout succeeded on the third push up, which reversed as a Wedge.
108

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2010
Trend breaks and trend births
The first thing a price action trader learns is that the market is either trending or in a trading range. If its in a trend, take only with trend trades. If its in a trading range, fade breakouts, i.e., take counter-trend trades. Of course, many traders find themselves in trouble when they find they are trying to trade with trend but the trend has already ended or they are trying to fade a breakout into a new trend. Therefore, its vital to know when a trend has ended and when a trend is erupting from a trading range. Many trend terminations are fairly obvious because they end in Wedges or overshoots and then reverse. However, often trends end in a consolidation. The definitive sign a trend has ended is if the trend line is broken. A broken trendline is clear and obvious if the price moves below the previous swing low in a one legged move as it did today from b37 to b40. The fact that it did so after a failed breakout from a horizontal final flag adds credibility to the end of trend. At this point the market is in a trading range bounded by the recent swing high of b37 and the swing low of b40. Any move to the edges of this range may be faded. If the range size is small as it was today, there could be insufficient room to give a scalp profit using price action entries. Limit traders can fade the first approach with confidence knowing that the first attempt is likely to fail and they have a reasonable stop a tick or two above the recent swing points. Trends usually birth after a breakout failure of one of the bounds of the range. Today, we got two attempts to break above the range at b51 and b65 and this gave a DP (double top/bottom and pullback) at b75. DPs are often trend generators and work best in the direction of the previous trend. Today's move had a breakout below the range but it failed at a measured move of half the trading range. The failure resulted in a breakout attempt on the opposite side of the range and gave a breakout pullback long entry (essentially a pause bar on b80). A failed breakout on one end of the trading range usually gives a breakout pullback on the other side of the range esp if the test on the second end is a one legged move. These are also very strong trend generators.
109

110

Nine Transitions .............................................. Price Action trading on the Emini
2011
111

MONDAY, JANUARY 3, 2011
A2 as a reversible trade
Today was a very clear trend from first bar, with the second bar giving an inside bar buy signal. Buyers above bar 1 could hold until a trendline break or trend channel line overshoot or other obvious trend termination signals. The first sign came today at b19 ii possible final flag signal. However, it failed to trigger on b20 which led to a 2 legged breakout of the flag that terminated in a possible climax bar on b26 (large bar size with large volume after an extended run). This in turn gave another ii signal. This one did trigger and most longs would have gotten out by now. Next we got a double top at b36 that did not trigger, followed by a double top pullback at b40. Many days when you have a trend from the first bar, various reversal signals will simply create a shallow pullback only to race up again. since we did not have a clear trendline break yet, none of these short signals are tradeable. The trendline broke decisively when the price dropped below b29 at b42. From this point, we had an H1 at b45 followed by a weak doji A2 signal bar at b50. On many strong trend days, the signal bars are terrible, so you need to take them anyway. Especially A2 as a continuation trade on a strong trend day is usually a good trade. However, if the A2 fails, i.e, goes below the entry or signal bars, it often turns into an A2 short signal. Today the move from b42 low to b55 high was a 2 legged move that was a clear A2 short setup the moment it went above the high of b45. Until price fell below b50, the A2 long has not yet failed. Once it did fail at b57, failing the double bottom, its a clear short. The breakout pullback at b59 was the best entry for the shorts. b77 was another possible A2 and second entry short (same entry as b74, with strong b74 signal and b75 entry bars). Since this was near end of session, most traders would choose to exit their shorts rather than reenter into new positions. The breakout below the trading range should go to at least the size of the range. Today it did and despite a strong 3 point reaction at the measured move, it continued further down. In summary, A2s are good trades to take since when they fail, they are usually reversible to the other side.
112

TUESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2011
Trend from first bar
A great trend bar as the first bar of the day is not to be missed, since it is likely to go quite a long way. An ideal first trend bar is around two points long with no more than 1t tail on each end. 3 points or longer and it could act as a trading range causing a rush to buy below it or sell above it. A couple of ticks smaller and the next bar may trigger and reverse the move before giving a scalp profit, thus establishing a trading range. One way to ensure you are entering correctly is to wait for a small pullback before or after the bar triggers. This ensures buyers had a chance to reverse the trend bar and failed. You should be able to hold the trade until you start seeing bars with tails as we saw around bar 7. When this happens, its usually prudent to exit and re-enter on the next signal. Today, we got an A2 short at b15. Normally, its a bad idea to sell below a flag, but b14 was a failed H2, which should give at least 2 pushes down. When the price hit the ema in a clear 2 legged move at b27, it gave a very clear A2 signal that was good for a swing. b34 was a possible final flag that triggered and reversed at b40. The one legged move to close above ema and clear break of trendline meant there was no more short trades left in the move. An A2 entry at b55 and b70 gave long trades reversing quite a bit of the bear move.
113

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
First pullbacks and breakout tests
Often buying above the first bar is risky. A weak reversal bar near the ema on a small gap such as today often breaks above and fails. This is especially true if the body is small and the entire bar is within yesterday's range as it was today. Since its important to catch a big move early on, its best to pass on the first bar if its weak and wait for a strong breakout and enter on the first pullback. Sometimes the second bar forms an inside bar of the same color as the first bar. This can serve as the first pullback. A doji such as today is acceptable but weaker. Cautious traders can pass on b2 and buy above b6. Limit buyers can place a limit order at the original entry once the low of a bar closes above it (b5). This would trigger today at the low of b7. There is some risk associated with buying limit early in the day since a first reversal can be severe. The best entry therefore is the first A2 at b14. Although technically the entry was above b13, practically all traders would have bought above b14 since it was a small bull bar at ema. b19 was a breakout test that stopped a tick above the previous signal. When a breakout tests happens to have its low exactly at the ema, its a very good sign to add on a bit more if the bar is not too large. Once the move hit +10 points from the low, most traders are looking to get out and all trades are essentially scalps. Hence the quality of trades drop therefore you should skip any questionable trade.
114

THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 2011
The gapless open
Getting on the correct side of the initial move is hardest when the first bar has a small or no gap from yesterday's last bar but the first bar closes strong. Generally, its best to treat it as a trading range and fade its breakouts. The next best option is to wait for a breakout and get in with trend on the first pullback. These days generally become trading ranges or trending trading ranges but sometimes do break into trend from first bar but the odds are with a trading range. Given todays first two strong bars, its not surprising many traders went with shorting the first pullback at b5. However, b3 was a possible first reversal and the entry bar b6 could have easily given a higher low and a long entry so not trading it was the correct option. A second attempt to break below failed at b9 and b10 presented a long entry at the bottom of the trading range. This was an easy long trade to take. However sometimes the breakout on the other side does not give a breakout pullback and simply fails spectacularly. The signs were there but hard to read. There was a 2 bar final flag at b13 and an overshoot from yesterday's trendline and the bear strength earlier. However I missed the big move and probably so did others. As expected the market stopped at a measured move from the size of the trading range and gave a reversal bar or a down up two bar reversal. The entry bar was strong and due to the overlap, once could expect the low of the entry bar to be bought. This was tested 3 times at b27,32 and 38. The A2 and DB at b38 and the DP at b46 were fairly easy to read. The W move to b55 gave a doji candle, so it was ok to pass it on and enter below the W1P at b60.
115

FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 2011
Trading with trend
An unfortunate consequence of focusing on oscillators, pivots and support and resistance levels is that the trader is forced to focus on counter-trend trading, which is usually low probability. The second consequence is that the trader typically focuses on small moves, netting +1 or +2 points when they should be focusing on getting a large slice of the move. The third consequence of trading this way is it forces you to use limit orders, which are inherently counter-trend. While consistent traders can use limit orders quite successfully, for most traders, they are counter productive since it forces you to focus on getting the best price rather than focusing on the best probability trades that can be held for the maximum points. Until the trader can begin to read trend breakouts and reversals perfectly, its best to let a trend establish itself and then take every continuation trade. For example, today's bar 2 was a possible first reversal and even if you didn't take it, you could easily take the first pullback at b14, which is usually the best swing entry for the day. If you missed it, you could still get in at the first A2 at b35. By b46, the trendline is broken after the W at b41, you would no longer be looking at short trades. You could easily take the first A2 at b57. In addition to A2, W1P (the first pullback after a W reversal) and the first reversal of the day are very good trades once you can read them correctly.
116

Traders who focused on buying the low of what they expected to be a major reversal due to it being a pivot or fibonacci or other proprietary support or resistance zone possibly made a couple of points or lost a couple of points.
117

MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2011
Large open bar is a trading range.
Today opened with a medium sized gap but the opening bar was large. When the first bar is too large, it can act as a trading range. So its breakout on both sides can be faded on a good signal bar. Todays first breakout was above and gave the biggest move of the day. A rare outside-inside-outside reversal at b6,7,8 turned the price around and presented the first pullback at b11. However, given the entry was at the top of the flag, it was understandable to pass it up. An exhaustion bar at b13 followed by an ii short turned around and presented an A2 long at b26. However this was hard to read and given the prior final flag and dojis was a low probability entry. The first channel break at b35 was a risky forced a buy at the top of the range. Given the double top at 32, it was best to pass it up. The market moved above the double top at b38 and tried to fail twice at b42 and b46. This was also a 3 push move in a channel and would act as a wedge. If this triggered and failed, there was a chance of a measured move of 5 points up. However, the price moved against the buyers twice, and an exit below b53 was apropos. b56 presented an A2 long and this was the last reasonable trade of the day. b73/74 was a possible FF or DT but given the mood of the day, its best to pass up such trades near the end of the trading session.
118

TUESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2011
Buying limits
I rarely buy limit, because I have no idea where the price will turn if at all and where to place a stop. Also, buying mid bar has the risk that the bar may end up quite differently than you imagined. Sometimes however, there are compelling reasons to enter on limit. The principal reason for me is a hard value at which I believe buyers will come in. This allows me to enter at a precise price as opposed to eyeballing the chart for an entry and secondly, a precise stop, making it quite like entering on stops above a signal bar. Today presented some of those occasions. The first condition for me to enter on limit is that there must be an overshoot. This will ensure that even if I'm wrong and the bar moves 4 or 5 ticks against me, there is some chance the market will withdraw and allow me to exit at breakeven. The second condition is a price point below me where buyers will be compelled to enter for example because its low of a major reversal or first touch of ema after 20 bars. The third condition is that the sell from which the move originated must be from a poor signal.
For example, the market presented a first reversal at b7 but forced a buy above a big flag forcing a stop of over 2 points. Although the entry bar b8 was strong, there was a good chance its low would be taken out. when b9 presented a poor sell signal (again due to overlap), an order to buy the low of the entry bar b8 becomes viable. The overshoot of b7 and the ema and b7 low are compelling reasons to buy and becomes a reasonable alternative to buying above the first pullback above b11. Note that when you buy above b11, the first pullback is real but when you were buying the low of b8, the first pullback only exists in your hopes. A second example is buying a tick above the low of b19 when the market made a 2 legged approach to the ema at b26. Here there were a host of reasons to buy such as: the overshoot of the bear pullback trendline, more than 20 gap bars from a rising ema, a bull trend line, etc. Even conservative traders probably bought this on limit. The low of b19 is likely to be bought, given the move was so strong and the low or a tick above it is a good entry price.
For those who passed up the limit trade, the technical entry forced a buy above b26 but some traders would buy above b27 and the entry bar b28 was likely to fail. The overlap and breakout below bull bar b30 was likely to fail, so a limit buy at b28 low with stop below b27 was a good entry. Today there was a late trend breakout to the downside that occurred after 4 failed attempts to breakout. The L4 below b42 was a typical double trap. b43 ticked below b42 trapping bears in, ticked above trapping them out and trapping bulls in and then broke below making b43 both a W and W1P and a DT and a DP. There were 2 large bars down followed by an A2 and due to the size of b45, there was some chance of buying below it, so an exit at the low of b45 was probably warranted.
119

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2011
First reversal vs first pullback vs first channel breakout
Day after day I post charts where the first reversal and pullback can be entered and held for a swing often till the end of the day. The first pullback is especially good for a profitable swing for at least the AM session. However, how do know which bar is the first reversal? Is it possible that b4 and b5 represent a first pullback that will continue to move to the bear side? Could it be a first channel breakout that has a high chance of resuming its down move? Sometimes a reversal bar is obvious. Its almost the same size as previous bars and looks like a well formed reversal bar with at most one tick entry side tail (or 2t if bar is large). However many other days its not quite obvious. For example in today's chart is bar 4 not an obvious first reversal. However, any reversal that gives an entry beyond the first bar after giving a one point scalp should be taken. A second reversal can be taken if it is an obvious breakout failure of the other end of the first bar. If not, wait for a possible breakout pullback or hang on to your swing portion. One strategy is not to take a questionable first reversal bar, but to then take the first pullback in either direction provided its a good setup. A trap in one direction such as b7 today also sets up an entry in the opposite direction. A good first reversal that ticks below a signal bar is usually good for another leg down (in essence turning into a first pullback trade) so reverse below the signal or even the entry bar. Typically if the first couple of bars are larger than 2 points (when average range is 10 points) or if the first two bars are up down or down up bars there is a good chance it will act as a trading range and you should look for either a failed breakout or breakout pullback when your first reversal tests the other extreme of the range as we saw yesterday.
120

THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 2011
The various kinds of reversals
Most traders are familiar with the reversal bar but such well formed reversal bars are found only in strong trend reversals, typically with obnoxious overshoots. Often you get Double top (b26,34) or bottom reversals, which many traders can spot. Occasionally, you get an inside bar reversal. These should only be taken if there is an overshoot and the entry still leaves room for a scalp to the other end of the outside bar. This is because large bars often act as trading ranges and there will be sellers above large bear bars and buyers below large bull bars. For example the entry above b58 was exactly six ticks from the outside bar's high, making this a possible reversal bar if there was an overshoot. When there is no overshoot, these bars act as traps and you can sell below a bear setup such as the b62 inside bar. b67 did have an overshoot, but there was insufficient space above it. In fact, you would be buying the very top of the bear bar, which is a terrible entry. Regardless, it went up to become a 5tf. This could also be shorted at the inside bar b69. The next and very important kind of reversal is the outside - inside - outside reversal we see at b73-75. When presented along with an overshoot, this is as good as a strong reversal bar. Normally the 3rd bar ticks above the inside bar trapping bulls in, then ticks below it trapping bulls out and bears in and then reverses up again. This kind of double trap results in a sharp move. The last kind of overshoot is the inverse of the above, an inside - outside - inside reversal (b810). When present with a sharp overshoot as it did today, this also results in a reversal. For a bull reversal bar followed by a bear inside bar, you may want bears to be trapped before buying above it. The ability to find high probability reversals allows you to hold your swing longer in addition to avoid getting in and out of low probability scalps.
121

FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 2011
Signs of trend strength
Today's first bar was unlikely to be a first reversal, since it was between yesterday's recent swing high and low. However, folks waiting for the first reversal should heed to very strong and obvious signals the market gave regarding trend strength. First, the entry bar above b1 was a shaved bar. This shows urgency on the side of longs. Second, the first reversal bar b3 did not trigger. When a reversal bar does not trigger, its a sign that there is certainly more up. Instead, the price broke above it, another bullish sign. The news reaction did a breakout test of the open at b6 low. What this means is folks who bought the open had more buy orders waiting at the same price. This usually means a strong bull day. b4 and b6 did not qualify to be first pullbacks since they would trigger a buy above the HOD. b8 was a doji after a weak close, and not really a buy setup. b13 was therefore the first pullback and could be held till the end of the day. The red diamonds indicate poor reversal signals which in turn indicate trend strength. b7, b21 and b71 were poor looking reversal bars (they were bull bars or had large entry side tail). b34 and b38 were one tick inside bars. b57 did not trigger on the next bar. All these signs show bull strength and half-hearted shorting, which meant only long positions should be taken all day. This is because most good traders will not be selling those bars but in fact, will use them as points to add to their positions. True there were overshoots at b7 and b21 but overshoots only imply a pullback is due. An obnoxious overshoot is needed for a real reversal. This is also why W1P is a much better trade than W. The other strong trend signs today were the 20+bars above ema and medium sized bars. The fact that every single swing low was above the previous swing low is also the sign of a healthy trend. As long as many or all these signs are present, dont even think of counter trend trades.
122

TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2011
Consolidation and breakout
While today's first bar was the ideal size (2 points for an average 10 point day) with only 1t on each end, the fact that it occurred without any gap from Friday was good reason to believe this was a trading range bar. A good bear bar near its top would be a good short candidate and a possible 1st reversal. However, we got a doji inside bar after a bull bar and while this works, there's a good chance that there could be a higher low that does not give a scalp profit so the right decision is to pass on the trade and wait for a higher low or a break below the bar and a possible reversal up. The down up reversal at b6 is a first reversal and should be taken. this should be good till the hod at least. Since this is down up reversal and not an inside bar trade, the entry is above the bull bar. The almost outside up entry bar of b7 gives a possible move to 1291.50. b10-b12 is a ii variant final flag and could lead to a move down. However, we are expecting a first pullback after a first reversal and folks who want to go long may skip the short trade and take a two legged higher low for a swing. b17 was a gap bar and a two legged pullback to a higher low and is the best swing option for the day. This should attempt to break above the HOD and try to get a measured move of the pullback, that is 1294.75. The move to b37 was a 2 legged poorly formed A2 signal and a rather shallow pullback. This is a TTR consolidation and its perfectly fine to get out at this point and wait for the market to breakout. The market moved to b61 as a poorly formed W and gave a reversal bar exactly at the b7 measured move. This reversal bar did not trigger, which was a bullish signal and shorts are best avoided at this point since there are no signs of bearish strength yet. While I normally buy above bullish bars, b70 was a small bear bar that had lots going for it. A 2 legged pullback after a breakout at b61, an overshoot of the pullback trendline, breakout test of the A2 signal at b37 and the first trendline break.
123

However, it was perfectly acceptable to buy above the shaved bar b71 or b78 breakout pullback and hold till the measured moves were met or end of day. The day ended at 1295, 1t above the measured moves of the first pullback and the final trading range. A triangle is a sign of consolidation and many traders exit their positions since a triangle could breakout either way although usually along the previous trend. The poor reversal bars at b50 and b61 along with the generally strong trend indicated a bullish breakout and bullish breakouts usually occur after pullbacks such as the two legged pullback to b70. Its important to note the examples of failed breakouts today. b2 broke above and failed giving a trend move to the other end of the range. b10 gave a 2 legged pullback, giving a long trade. b50 and b61 were failed breakouts that did not generate a trade since the breakout bar did not generate a signal or trigger.
124

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2011
Tight Trading Ranges on Hard trend days
Two boxes in the Trend transition matrix are labeled TTR. Since TTRs are full of failed trades but often lead to strong breakouts, detecting and correctly trading TTRs is very important to your trading success. One of the common types of TTRs are found on a hard trend day such as today. Usually, after such a hard move of 10 points or so, the market moves horizontally in a TTR and is essentially a very weak pullback. The move from b16 to b35 is a down to horizontal transition and is a TTR. Except the short below b19, every single price action entry failed. This is a very important example of why you need to stay out of a TTR. The only single kind of trade you can take is a breakout after a failed breakout on another side. b28 broke above the previous swing high of b19 and failed giving an A2 short below b36. Even if you could not read the A2 correctly, the fact that the market gave a shaved trend bar at the ema after a failed breakout is sufficient reason to go short. Detecting and exiting on a TTR: Although today the TTR was of short duration, sometimes the TTR can last till the end of the day or at least till the last 90 minutes. Exiting when you detect the TTR is the right approach and here is how I do it. If a hard trend day suddenly produces tiny bars and dojis such as b17 and b18, I will worry a TTR is forming and exit on the next bear bar or near the previous swing low. Then I will wait for a failed breakout and assume we are are breaking out in the opposite direction especially if the failure would break with trend (most TTRs are w/trend flags). Occasionally TTRs will give a double bottom pullback and reverse up and I will usually take that trade only if the other side of the TTR is at least one 6 ticks away.
125

Today's Summary A strong trend gives very few successful counter-trend trades while a hard trend has legs that move many points. This usually means a hard trend can give a windfall if you swing it yet it can erase all the winnings if it does reverse. My approach is to take some or all off whenever I expect the market to go into a tight trading range and re-enter on the next signal. Traders who trade large number of contracts can simply keep taking profit at every swing extreme or preset targets of +2, +4, +8 etc. The first bar today was a doji with a 1t body but its entry bar was a strong bear bar. A gap day with such a strong entry bar is sufficient cause to short below it. Cautious traders could enter below the first pullback at b9. The actual entry is below b8, which happens to be the entry bar of the b7 longs and will likely cause a selloff. This is also a failed H1 trade (fH1) that should give a measured move of just under 5 points. The TTR fBO trade described above is also a very obvious trade once you are able to read it correctly. b41 was a possible W reversal but there were plenty of signs that the signal was bad. b43 was an outside up bar that never triggered. The db bar b43 was a doji, which like the outside bar was a trading range type of bar. You did ok if you bought above any of these but its doubtful it would reverse hard. There was no W1P and therefore the Gap bar at b50 was a good short and could be held till a new LOD.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011
Handling unclear signals
Often you get signals that should be good but the bars end up bad or slightly off. Normally, its best to let them go and wait for a second better signal. Signal bars can be bad for various reasons. First and foremost, they are not the right color. You need a bull bar to buy long and bear bar to short. The second reason is that the risk is too high because of bar size. The first hour most reversals can work and some traders do trade any reasonable signal.
126

In the chart above, is b2 today a first reversal? Since the big bar b1 would act as a trading range, b2 could be breakout and a small pullback could lead to a breakout pullback stopping you out. If it had even a single tick bull body, it would probably be worth the risk. Similarly b7 could give a breakout pullback since the actual breakout was on bar 6 an additional bar increases the chances of breakout pullback. b9 was indeed a first pullback with an entry above b8 for long or below for short. b12 was just a large doji and not a reversal bar. A second attempt to go below it may be taken as an A2 short. b25,26 was a down up bar reversal and I missed it along with b27 W1P. Often W1Ps give a channel and its hard to get in until a first channel break as it did on b34. Although b34 was a doji bar and possibly an H1, it was a high probability trade because it was a breakout test of the swing high b21 and also at ema. The A2 entry above b50 was questionable because it forced a buy above the flag and one point above the previous entry. If you'd rather not wait for a second entry that usually presents itself as b52 did here, you should use a 8t money stop instead of a price action stop. W1Ps are usually good for at least a point but sometimes I dont take them. b66 is an example. There was no clear reversal bar near the FF around b64 and the entry bar b65 was weak. b66 forced a short below the flag and I passed up the trade. b74 was an example of an otherwise excellent bar that many may not have taken. A Gap reversal bar after an overshoot of the pullback but demanded a 10t stop. The entry went to a 5t failure and took out the stops below the entry bar. 8t stops were respected however. In summary, if the bar is the wrong color, pass up the trade. If the bar is the wrong size, use a money stop instead of a price action stop. If the bar is a doji, take the trade if there are supporting reasons such as breakout test, ema, trendline support, channel overshoot, etc.
127

FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011
Entering on L1 and H1 in a strong trend
Second entries such as A2 and W1P are my staple entries on most days, but on strong trend days, you may not get many of them. On these days you have may have to enter on L1s and H1s. Today was such a day and I would like to share how I pick which L1s I like to take and which ones I avoid. When a strong trend such as the one from b7 to b13 progresses (with average size bars, not too much tails or overlap, goes many points before a pullback) you may have to suspect that its a very strong trend day and you may have to enter on L1s. My rule for entering on L1s is simple. Every small trend bar is a with trend entry regardless of color. (Note: This only applies on strong trends). so b15, b25, b57, b62 were such L1 entries. The second requirement I have is that there needs to be one other reason such as 5tf on b25 or the overshoot and inside bar on b36. I waited to short below the bear bar b16 and this cost me 7ticks as my stop above b17 was taken out. Since the bar was a bit large I should have not moved the stop till I had scalped out and this was an error on my part. Avoiding the entry below an outside bar that's close to the low of day was probably the best thing to do at that point. b16 would also have been a 1st pullback entry if it had occurred a bit higher. Anyone who shorted it and held it till the end of day would have done well.
128

MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2011
Trading Channels
Channels should never be counter-trend traded regardless of what signals you may be reading into them. This is especially true for a channel that has just broken out of a trading range. Every L2 or overshoot is destined to fail if you take a counter-trend trade. This is because a channel is just a trend on a slower timeframe. One option is to trade the slower timeframe. The other option is to enter half a position on every pullback bar. When there is a first break of the channel, you could enter the other half. For example, you could buy the close of bars 13,16,18,23,26, etc. with a stop below the previous bull bar. The safest and the correct trade however is to wait for the first channel break and enter with trend after a 2 legged pullback. First channel breaks are fairly safe to enter at the ema with a tight stop. After the channel break, your odds of successful counter trend trades improve. The best move of course is to be in the channel before it begins. A 1st pullback entry above b7 or a breakout pullback entry above b13 would let you swing the move until the first channel break and test above it.
129

TUESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2011
The very best trades
There were probably hundreds of trades today but today was a great sampler of my favorite trades. The first pullback (1PB), Two legged pullback near ema (A2), Double Top or Bottom and pullback (DP), first pullback after Wedge reversal (W1P). The biggest moves come from these trades, and I make sure I enter them when I can read them on time. Today I missed the DP on b54 and possibly the A2 or 1PB on b18. Trading only these four will still keep you in the black even with a 50% success rate since they often go to +4 points.
130

THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011
Optimal trading of breakouts and failed breakouts
Most breakouts fail and lead to a test of the other side of a trading range. Occasionally, the breakout succeeds and you need to enter it with trend on a pullback. The following factors increase the likelihood of a successful breakout:
ñ Large breakout bar ñ No overshoot of a trend channel line on the breakout ñ Previous failed breakout on other end of the range ñ A 2 legged pullback after breakout A successful breakout is likely to move to twice the size of the range. For example, b63 broke above the afternoon trading range and gave a breakout pullback A2 bar b71 which moved to twice the range at b76. A failed breakout on the other hand is likely to move to the other end of the trading range. For example, the failed breakout below b1 at b24 caused the market to turn up and test the high of b7. So the correct way to trade a breakout is as follows: If the trading range is small, as in the afternoon chop between b46 and b58, there is a very good chance the first breakout will fail. Scalp and reverse on the failure. If the range is very small, you may not even be able to scalp so just stay out till the range widens. If the trading range is large such as the open move from b1 to b7, then you can enter on the failure if the failure signal is a bar of reasonable size such as b76. If the failure bar is large, enter on the first pullback as in b13 short or b29 long. You could scalp part and hold the rest until a breakout or test of the other end of the range.Occasionally, the market will break a trendline and turn into a TTR as it did at b50. When this happens, its safe to get out near the top of the recent swing and wait for more price action. This is because a failed Breakout can quickly turn into a breakout and a deep pullback and you dont want all those profits to evaporate.
131

FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 2011
Trading hard trends
Trading a trend with sharp moves and long bars is very hard since you get very few entries and every entry moves a large number of points. When you see two or three trend bars with very little overlap, you already know its one of these days. Often the best entry is the first pullback, which in the case of a hard trend like this is a special kind of failed H1 (fH1) that usually gives a measured move down. The harder the move before the pullback and the weaker the pullback as today, the greater the chances of meeting or exceeding the measured move. Often after the measured move is met there is a tight trading range, so I exit and wait for more price action. On majority of the days, holding a fH1 till the end of day can pay profitably as it did today. But what if you missed the fH1 entry on b10 or exited with a couple of points? One option is to short the close of every trend bar or its breakout. I personally find selling closes hard to stomach, since the pullback can be as large as the trend bar itself as with b13. My technique is to enter on any pullback and short below any small bar regardless of color until there is an obnoxious overshoot. Days like this nearly always have a huge bar with an obnoxious overshoot as in b31. For example, shorts below b23, b26 were good entries. Aggressive traders would short any H1 expecting it to fail. Once the sell climax occurs, the down move is over for a while and you should expect a pullback. This pullback does not have to go near ema but often tests the high of the sell climax bar. Usually this can be shorted at least once to test the low of the climax bar. On days like these the best policy is to only trade in the direction of the primary trend since there is a very good chance there could be another huge move late in the day but very low chance of a sharp reversal. For example although b62 had at least 3 reasons to buy, I would pass it up and only focus on short trades.
132

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2011
Determining continuation versus reversal
Often you may ask yourself if the trend has really ended or is this just a pullback. And if its a pullback, is it going to be a one legged, two legged or three legged pullback. Or perhaps its a channel down. For example in today's chart is b25 a 2 legged pullback or was b19,b24 a double top that we should sell? The answer is simple. In the absence of a trendline break or trend channel line overshoot, always assume the trend is still on and go with trend. The wide overlaps make it difficult to take a price action entry above b25 or 26 or even b30. One option is to buy above the signal bar (b25 or 26 in this case) and allow one pullback below your entry bar. You could also buy part of the position at the expected pullback, i.e., below the twin bars b27,28. On the other hand what about b46? Is that a W1P or just a leg up in a two legged move to the ema (eventually at b51). Whenever you ask yourself if this is a W you should ask if this was in any way an extreme move. The move from b31 to b37 was indeed a sharp move and tagged the trendchannel line but did not otherwise exhibit signs of a W reversal.
ñ There was no obnoxious overshoot. ñ There was no reversal bar ñ The entry bar b38 did not actually trigger theoretical entry below b36.
133

It was indeed the third push up and there was a micro trend channel line overshoot, so this could still work like a marginal W1P. Often when the signs are ambiguous you may just get a deep pullback or a trend line break as it did today. Its perfectly alright to take a weaker W1P for a scalp or wait for the next entry. B56 gave a two legged BP short of the ema. b54 had a lower high and lower close and divided the move into two legs. This is a very strong signal that you should take. If for some reason you did buy above b51 assuming its an A2 long, the two legged move to b56 should tell you to exit or reverse. Also keep in mind the overall price action context. The horizontal trading range between bars 19-30 could act as a magnet forcing any breakout to be pulled back into the area. Pullbacks are just smaller trends in the opposite direction and an overshoot of its trend channel line or trendline break and test is the best way to determine if the pullback has ended. In general one legged pullbacks should only be taken in very strong trends, 2 legged pullbacks can be taken anytime unless the moves shows strength in the pullback direction (such as breakout bar). 2 or 3 legged (W) pullbacks can be taken if they show an overshoot. Most pullbacks that end at trendline or ema without breaking it giving a good signal bar can be taken.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011
Detecting and trading extremely strong trends
Folks who are used to trading with indicators often destroy their accounts shorting all the way to the top on a very strong trend day. Learning to identify a strong trend and going with it instead of against is very important to your trading success. One of the biggest signs of a strong trend day is a large gap. Anything larger than half an average day is a large gap and you should be on the lookout for a strong trend move. Average to small size bars is a good indication this will be a strong trend day. A first pullback (b3,4)
134

instead of a reversal is another indication the price wants to move up. A 1tf of the short entry on b4 is another indication of strength. At this point you should be buying any pullback for any reason. A second one tick failure at b9 indicates a very strong day and you can even buy the low of any inside bear bar on limit as long as the bars are reasonable size. You can also buy above any bull inside bar to take an H1 entry. You can continue to do this until there is a strong trend break. However, when the bars get tiny, there is a real chance of a TTR, which simply a trend ending where an up move turns sideways and is part of the nine transitions. Buying only above bull bars reduces your chances of buying in the middle of a TTR as does buying after a deeper pullback since TTRs are normally shallow. What about wedges? is b11 a third push up and therefore a wedge? The single most important thing to remember about Wedges are that they will not pullback without an overshoot and they are best tradeable after a trendline break. Therefore, b11 or even b20 should not be expected to give a large pullback. b43 was possibly a W since the move from b20 to b23 could be a marginal trendline break and it did overshoot a tick or so. However its a poor W without an obnoxious overshoot on a very strong day. Even though it did move 3+ points down, it was a harrowing move for nearly two hours. However this move did give a strong break of the trendline and the next W at b77 is more comfortably shortable. The most important point to note about trading days like these is that you should have identified a strong trend day decided early in the day to only trade long or just enter after a deep pullback and swing till an obnoxious overshoot or strong trendline break.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011
Breaking Bad
The precise determination of the direction and entry of breakouts is one of the hardest aspects of trading. Even when you can get the direction right, many traders often get stopped out before the market has the eventual big breakout. If you can get in correctly, you stand to gain the best risk to reward ratio. This has led so many traders and algorithmic programs to concentrate their efforts on correctly detecting and entering a breakout. Today's entry represents the fBO or center square in the nine transitions.
135

Many traders concentrate on entering on breakouts and many others on fading breakouts since most of them fail. The truth is that breakouts in a trend usually succeed and breakouts in trading ranges usually fail. Even then, occasionally breakouts do succeed from a trading range and thus trends are born.

If you look at the chart from today, b3 was a possible first reversal and b8 was a possible first

pullback. It was a tough trade to take since the signal bar was a one tick bodied inside bar

with a large tail forcing you to buy in the middle of the range. A second entry for the first

pullback at b21 was a much more decent entry but at this point, the trader finds himself in a

trading range. At this point, the correct thing to do is assume every breakout will fail as we

saw

today:

ñ b37 attempted breakout of b21 swing low failed ñ b50 attempted breakout above BW failed ñ b52 attempted breakout below BW failed ñ b65 broke above 3 swing highs, but eventually failed ñ b74 breakout below triple bottom failed.
Many successful breakouts are a result of a failed breakout on one side of the trading range or a double bottom pullback on one end of the trading range. Today we had a marginal double bottom pullback at b52. What made the setup deficient was that the pullback after the double bottom was not sufficiently deep. This entry forced a buy in the middle of the range 3t higher than the double bottom entry and certainly closer to a recent swing high. A successful DP usually gives an entry close to the original double bottom entry and dips nearer to the double bottom. Another important clue that this DB was likely to fail was that the breakout happened on the third push with an overshoot. Normally for a breakout, this is OK if there is follow through. If not, its time to exit or reverse your positions.
The hardest thing about trading breakouts is that they mentally condition you to expect a certain type of move and you end up taking a marginal entry. For example, after the double bottom at b37, I was expecting a DP, and correctly read the failures of b47 break up from BW and b51 break below ema but ended up taking b52, despite it being marginal. Trading failures on the other hand is far simpler. You could have traded every failed breakout in the list above and done very well today. And if for some reason the failure fails, you could always reverse and go with the breakout pullback.

136

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011
Prison Break: Breakouts from horizontal flags
Horizontal flags with alternating up and down bars (like the bars of a prison cell) often produce violent breakouts. Predicting them correctly is quite a challenge. Often there will be multiple breakouts that all fail until one of them breaks suddenly and moves many times the size of the flag. Horizontal flags can also act as magnets and the move often retracts back to the horizontal area. So if you get a reversal, you should at least exit if not reverse your position altogether. Like all breakouts horizontal breakouts are also best traded as breakout pullbacks. This article represents the yellow boxes in the first and third columns of the center row in the nine transitions. Be aware that trying to predict breakouts is extremely risky, and usually you are better off taking a breakout pullback. Sometimes there are no breakout pullbacks, and you just need to let it go.
For example b6 broke through the flag and although it looked like a poor reversal bar with a large overlap, it failed to breakout of the other side and gave a sharp move down without any pullback to enter with trend. Another horizontal flag during lunch hour also showed a similar breakout. The first breakout at b42 broke above the previous swing high of b37 and failed to break below the swing low of b40. This made the DP entry above b54 viable or you could just take the BP at b61. Horizontal flags generally break with the prior trend and away from the ema rather than across. Since yesterday's final move was down, todays opening flag should also break down. Similarly the lunch flag should break up.
137

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2011
First Channel breakouts
First channel breakouts are a high probability entry if you can correctly identify them. I usually end up not taking them, because I'm already in a position due to a prior entry and have just exited my scalp portion a few ticks ago. It does not make sense to re-enter unless the price action has shifted significantly. The correct way to enter a first channel breakout long is if the price triggers above the bar that broke the micro-trendline. Therefore for the channel from b34 to b42, since the bar b43 dipped below the prior bar, an entry above it is a high probability entry. On the other hand for the channel from b20 to b25, the channel was broken by b27, but a long above it was not triggered. A second bar that dips below the prior bar is more likely to be a 2 or 3 legged pullback or barb wire and you should not be buying above b28. The move eventually gave two failed extremely poor sell signals, a doji reversal at b29 and a 1t ii short at b32 both of which failed and turned into an A2 long. Although technically the b32 ii is a possible long signal and would make it an A2, its such a poor signal that very few traders took it. If you did take a poor signal, you need a money stop of 8 ticks (which was not hit).
138

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2011
Exiting a swing position
"Profit often, profit early" is a good principle on how to exit your positions. You should always exit one contract at +1, this gives you strength to hold through a pullback to breakeven or slightly below since you wont be fretting over lost profits or fear a good trade turning bad. Exiting additional contracts at +4, +8 and +10 with a stop below the previous swing low is a good practice and is practiced by many price action traders. Today's post represents the top central orange cell labeled 'TTR' in the nine transitions. Today presented very few low risk entries and the earliest entry was the 1PB at b6. You could hold it till the end of day, but often the market tells you it may not pay to hold till the end of day. Today presented some of these signs that should not be ignored. A healthy trend prints strong trend bodies. When it can no longer do that and tails and overlaps dominate, you should watch for trend weaknesses such as trendline breaks or climax bars. The earliest sign was a possible horizontal FF from b14 to b16. The fact that its breakout on b17 failed right away was a sign to exit on strength. The shrinking bodies and growing tails approaching a trendline that has been tested at least four times already signalled a possible trendline break which we got on the move down to b23. Since this was a first trendline break after a sharp move, a test of the HOD was a high probability event. If you entered above b6 today, you could try to exit at 1319.75 giving you +6. The price crossed it by one tick and turned down into a reversal bar. As I have noted before, an end of an up move does not automatically mean you should reverse your position. Often strong trends give horizontal flags that later break in the direction of the original trend. However, sometimes it breaks in the opposite direction as it did today and the right thing to do is to exit and wait for more price action.
139

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011
The classic A2
Today's post is regarding continuation in a trend and represents the top left corner of the nine transitions. A 2 legged pullback that gives an entry just above or below the ema is called an A2 (for 2 Legged move to Average). The ema used by Brooks system is a 20 bar exponential moving average. A well formed A2 looks like the one from bars b12 to b20. The move is mostly trend bars and there is a clear trendline break of the pullback at b16 and a second leg down to b20, which closed strong. Not all A2s are that clear. Sometimes it may be as simple as 2 failed attempts to turn down such as the move from b31 to b35. b32 tried to fail the new high and so did b35. The bars were dojis, which are trading ranges. Normally A2s that are made hard to read dont go very far and are best passed up. The only exception is during a soft trend day when every entry is an A2 made of overlapping bars. If an A2 is not made of good looking bars, you may wish to wait for an additional confirming signal to increase its chances of running for a swing such as a double bottom or G bar. For example, b50 was a G2 bar in addition to being an A2 long entry. Since G2 itself is a high probability trade.
140

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2011
One legged moves to ema
A common sign of the end of a trend and often the beginning of a reversal is a one legged move to the ema and close beyond it. Today showed several of these cases and a conservative trader can simply enter with the new trend on its first pullback. Today's first such move was from b5 to b7. Had b5 not ticked below b1, it would have been a two legged move and therefore a possible sell signal. Similarly the move from b17 to b19 was one legged and even though it did not quite close below, a fraction of a tick is close enough to sell below the pullback bar b20. The overlap of the tail and only a fraction of a tick overshoot of the TCL on b35 made the wedge signal rather weak but a one legged move on strong trend bars meant there would be another leg up at least and if the signal bar b43 did not have such an overlap or if the pullback was deeper, I'd have taken the trade instead of passing it up. The move from the final flag at b49 to b52 was one legged and made of shaved bear bars. The first pullback however was b57 inside bar, which forced a sell at the bottom and is riskier. After a close below the ema, any small trend bar in the direction of the move can be used as a signal bar especially if its shaved. Strictly speaking the move from b64 to b69 was not strictly one legged, but for our purposes, since the price only ticked one tick below previous bars and turned into outside up bars, you could easily treat it as a one legged move. In this particular case, it shouldn't matter, since the strong overshoot has already confirmed the reversal.
141

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011
Lunch money
Often during lunch session, the pullbacks can be complex and protracted. Trend breakouts during lunch sessions do happen, but they are comparatively scarce. The simplest way to trade lunch is to stay out and is the recommended practice for beginners. Lunch hour also is rife with traps and breakouts that look bold but go nowhere, so limit traders are especially vulnerable. It may seem that they stop you out to the tick and then reverse the move. Even the reliable A2s can fail as we did today at the A2 off b34. This is because lunch hour bars are badly formed and signals are not good enough for many traders to enter. Even fading every breakout is dangerous since breakouts sometime do succeed especially if accompanied by some unexpected news. If the AM session had a trend move, as long as there was no overshoot, you should assume the entire lunch move is likely to be a pullback or trend break at the worst and it should at least test the previous swing extreme. The correct way to enter the market at the end of the lunch hour is after a trend bar breakout and enter in the direction of its likely failure. Today, the comparatively large trend bar at b48 failed and gave an long entry. which could be held till HOD is tested or end of day with a stop below the entry bar b52
142

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011
Climax and exhaustion bars
A climax bar is a large bar on high volume at the end of an extended move. A true climax often turns into a crash after a weak pullback. Today's bar 19 was an exhaustion rather than a climax because of the following reasons:
ñ The move was large but not extended. The move from low of day was well within the average bar size of recent days.
ñ The pullback on b22,23 was rather strong ñ The short signals on b20 and b24 did not have follow through Despite the channel overshoot, it wasn't really a wedge since it was only two legs up for all practical purposes. All these meant an extended correction and the price was certain to test and try to break above b19. The Gap bar and a failed breakout of the trend bar from the BW pattern of b26-32 was the correct long entry to take. Those who missed it could also take the first A2 above ema at b52 or b54.
143

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
Weak wedges
Narrow range days usually have overlapping bars and one or two weak wedges. Some of these wedges are traps and others pull back a few points but may not actually result in a reversal. The reason is that wedges need to be extreme moves and have a clear signal bar for with trend traders to switch sides. Today we had a W4,8,11 from the open but we did not actually get a reversal bar. The closest readable entry was the W1P at b14, but even that is a bit risky. The strong overlap at the open would act as a magnet, pulling the price back in so its a scalp at best. There was a possible W23,31,35 which gave a inside bar signal that never triggered. This is usually an indication of unwillingness of traders to short and hence, more up. The right thing to do is to buy a 2L PB to ema, possibly on limit at say b44 or so. A third W35,67,76 gave a better signal that had a strong entry bar and the W1P at b79 was a good entry and could be taken for a swing if it wasn't at the end of day. Weak wedges also occur in pullbacks and they are usually excellent with trend entries. For example, W48,51,57 was possibly a weak W pullback and buying above the next bull bar is acceptable as long as you are okay holding through pullbacks since your signal bar had lots of overlap. In summary, the trick to trading wedges is the same as trading every other signal. When the signal is clear and strong, go with it. Otherwise, fade it.
144

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2011
Managing trades that go bad
Sometimes we read the market incorrectly or in the heat of a big move, place orders before identifying a pattern correctly. Sometimes we get into trades due to bad habits or the trades we enter into just fail. How you manage your trade after you get into it plays very strongly into your trading success. The ideal situation is to very rarely get into bad trades. A simple way to do this is to never buy above or sell below overlaps, especially if in BW. Folks who bought above b16, a doji bar or above b26 or sold below b58 lost. The second rule is if your signal bar has a large tail on the entry side, its usually better to wait for a second signal. Also avoid large inside bars since they often act as trading ranges. The best and first course is to scratch the trade by exiting at a small profit or breakeven if your entry bar is anything but a trend bar. The next option is to move your stop below your entry bar no matter how crappy it looks and let the market take you out. An alternative is to trail 5t from your entry and let the market take you out. If you choose your entries correctly, your entry bar should be a nice long trend bar with small tails. The setups I choose typically have such entry bars and if they end up looking like anything else, I look to bail. For example, b9, b20 and b61. A bar with a single small tail is ok, as long as the close is strong such as b20 and b36. Any bar that has larger tails is higher risk of failure such as b27, b70. At the very least, exit most of your position at a smaller target. Bars that end up in a doji or whose close is against your position are very likely to be failures, possibly after a bit more move in your direction such as b5, b17, b22, b64 etc. You should exit right away and look to reverse your position. My standard trades of A2, W1P, DP and fBO should not need more than 4t or 5t stop and often go to +2. Once your scalp of +1 is filled, you should right away move your stop to breakeven. After that, you can move the stop after every HL or LH. An alternative is to trail it by 5t and let the market take you out. If you trade this way, your maximum loss is 4t/trade (or 5t in the first hour). and your expected gain is about 6t average (+1 and +2/+0). This inversion from 4t target and 6t stop to 6t target and 4t stop means your accuracy only needs to be slightly greater than 50% instead of the 70% for breakeven.
145

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2011
Wedge reversals and W1P
The reason I take W1P almost every time and Wedges only when the signal bars are very well formed is simply that I have a lot more information about the strength and sustainability of the reversal. Today's entry forms the blue bottom left and top right corners of the nine transitions. For example, b9 could have been a possible W (since there was no gap between yesterdays last bar and today's open bar, we can treat it like a continuation). However, by the time the possible W1P presented itself at b16, we already had many clues that this reversal attempt would fail:
ñ the signal bar was weak since it was smaller in size compared to recent bars and had a 2t tail on top.
ñ A shaved entry bar or an entry bar with only 1t on at least one side strengthens the W. b10 had 2t on both sides.
ñ A well formed W1P should not tick more than 1t below the entry bar b10. Price closed below it on a strong trend move.
This kind of W1P usually gives a scalp but is not advisable for a swing move. Another similar W occurred at b35. This was weak for several reasons.
ñ the down/up reversal at b34,35 is a possible trading range and there may be sellers above it. Its best entered on a second entry or after a 2 legged pullback (2L W1P).
ñ Entry bar was small compared to recent bars ñ It closed several ticks below entry bar The W at b46 however was very much the sign of extreme behavior and even though it wasn't bull bodied, it had a strong entry bar. A down/up bar must be of comparable size and should not give an entry far beyond both bars to be an up/down or down/up signal. So b29,21 for example was a good up/down signal but b47 is an entry bar. The pullback bar b49 or the inside bar b51 could be bought as a W1P.W1Ps tend to move till their move is terminated into another W or until the first pullback in the move down to the W. So for example if the W began at b3, then you could expect W1P to move till b13 high. Sometimes they end in a W as we did today at b71.
146

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011
Inside bars
I've often mentioned how outside bars are trading ranges and you should always watch for failures or take second entries of their breakouts. Inside bars form an overlapping region and are therefore like a small trading range. Generally inside bars should only be taken as with trend entries. A counter trend break of an inside bar is likely to fail and trap you as in the short side breakout of b9. When the body of a bar is inside the body of the preceding bar as in b4, it often acts as an inside bar even if it pokes slightly (but not a lot) outside the preceding bar. Some down/up reversals are effectively inside bars if their sizes are not comparable as in b33. Their breakout can fail as well. The chances of success of a trade off an inside bar is stronger if the inside bar is a small trend bar at the end of a large bar. In these cases, you could trade the breakout of the inside bar and not worry about taking an entry off the outside bar as in b25 and b35. Inside bars that have both bars of the same color can be treated as a pullback and be entered with trend as in b59. Double bottom at the ema is also another acceptable entry as in b65. Inside-inside bars as in b30 have a much higher chance of success than single inside bars, especially with trend. In this case, it works as a breakout pullback trade. In summary, inside bars are best entered with trend or to fade large bars. It is simpler to understand when you look at inside bars as basically pullbacks. If you don't believe the trend has reversed, you can restrict your entries to higher probability trades.
147

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011
Expecting pullbacks
Knowing where to expect pullbacks has two benefits. One is that you may choose to lighten your holdings and take some profit. The second is to be able to add on or enter late if you missed the original entry. When the price takes out the high of a bear trend bar or takes out the low of a bull trend bar, it may pullback a bit. The reason for this is simple. Traders who originally entered there are willing to enter again. Another way to look at this is that when the price has turned around from a bear move back upwards, the entire pullback is like a trading range and trend bars are like mini-trading ranges. They are traded in a similar way, you can fail their breakout or enter on a breakout pullback depending on how good or bad the failure signal is. For example, with b32, it was a poor 1tick doji signal and effectively an inside bar. Sellers below were trapped and the price moved up. An aggressive trader would buy the low of that bar with a stop 1 or 2t below b31. This is especially true for entry bars since traders like to add on at the original price. For example, b75 took out the low of entry bar b56 off a poor short signal and an aggressive trader could buy this with a stop below b44, another entry bar. In general, this approach is best for entering with trend as in the first half of today or fading trading range breakouts as showed in the second half.
148

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011
A weak move off the first pullback may indicate first reversal ahead
The first pullback, especially a deep one is often your best bet for a swing trade since by then everyone who has missed the early move will jump in for the ride. First pullbacks after the first reversals are usually the best, since the initial move gives traders a better price to enter. Today's first pullback at b9 broke above the previous swing high, but the breakout bar was weak and overshot a trend channel line. Normally, this only means a 2 or 3 legged pullback and sometimes the second leg stops near the ema giving a gap bar. However, if it ticks below the entry bar by more than one tick, especially if it does it a second time (b17,b22), there is a good chance you just missed the first reversal. You should always exit your swing portion and look to enter short. The weak A2 entry bar at b29 further confirmed more weakness to come and b40 provided a later entry on the short side. First pullbacks without a first reversal and often even after first reversals are usually reversible trades. The idea behind a first pullback is that everyone by now has recognized the direction has turned and wants to get in the new direction. The move needs to be clear and strong. Any weakness indicates you have read it incorrectly and you should look to exit.
149

TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011
Keep the trend type in context while trading
Trends come in three broad varieties. The usual most common is the elastic trend, which snaps back and forth based on buying and selling pressure. Most traders expect every day to act like this and will lose big on the other two type of days. The second type of trend is a soft trend which essentially maintains a slow grind (usually up) pulling back only a tick or two below previous bars. Shorting such days based on any standard setups is a recipe for bleeding your account every six bars or so. The third type of trend is a hard trend day which moves (usually down) relentlessly. There are up moves, but none of them are worth trading since they take your focus off what you should really be doing: wait for a with trend move and hold till end of day or climax. By the first two or three bars you should have already known that this was a hard trend day. And on hard trend days, there is only one rule: There are no counter-trend trades. Yes, the move from b15 to b19 was good but that was the exception. Most counter-trend trades lost today and almost any with-trend trade succeeded. The other interesting feature of hard trends is that overshoots need to be very deep to give pullbacks. And only an obnoxious overshoot with a large climax bar can terminate the trend. Hard trend days need to break and go into trading ranges before they can continue or reverse. On many days such as today, they will push relentlessly till the end of day. There are very few entries from the perspective of a normal or elastic trend. Today we had the 1st reversal on bar 1. If you watched the bar forming, You would see it popped up 4 ticks in the first few seconds and then stayed down. A reversal bar off a sharp overshoot above a gap is a signal any trader should take. b5 was a 1st pullback and if it wasn't for the impending news which often runs stops is the best swing entry of the day. If you missed that, there was an A2 on b23, which was also a good swing entry. The entire lunch move saw only failed H1s in a hard trend and you could short below any pullback that did not have a large tail. This takes some practice to do and I often let them pass. A final A2 at b75 gave 6 points. Its never too late to enter with trend on a hard trend day.
150

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2011
Wedges without overshoots, reversal bars or pullbacks
The ideal wedge has a clear overshoot on the third or fourth push and ends up in a clear reversal bar. The reversal bar's entry bar is a strong trend bar. A weak pullback gives a W1P that gives you an entry into the now reversed trend. On trend days you probably will see a reversal like that. But on trading range days, you may have large swings that are best seen as 2 legs in each direction. None of the third pushes today resulted in significant overshoots, did not quite end in reversal bars and surprisingly sold off all the way down without any pullback. On days like this, you can pass up the wedge trades and simply wait for the next setup or if you are an aggressive trader, trade the third push as a W if it is a failed breakout. The idea behind the failed breakout is that the breakout traders who buy above the previous swing high should not be able to make a scalp profit. You need a first entry that triggers and fails as in b18,b42,b65 and then a second entry comes into play very close to the previous signal. If the second signal bar has lots of overlap as in b44, you are better off waiting for a pullback above your entry bar and then taking the next signal. A very important requirement for a trade like this is prior strength in the new direction. A strong move in the later half of yesterday or early in the day are needed to enter this way or you may find yourself shorting a series of H1s on a strong day.
151

FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011
Trend terminations and breakouts
Today's post addresses the second row of the nine transitions. The easiest type of pattern to read in real time is a continuation and the hardest type of pattern to read is the breakout and for a variety of reasons. The most obvious reason is that most continuations succeed and most breakouts fail. Breakouts can fail multiple times before they eventually succeed as was the case today. Before you can read breakouts, you need to be able to detect when a trend has terminated into a trading range. The simplest and the easiest way is to look at the two recent highs and lows. If they are sideways, the trend has ended. Trends terminations (TT) usually have weak reversal signals that not many will take such as the poor oio reversal at b35-37 and give a weak continuation signal such as the bull bar A2 short at b44 that very few took. Trends can also terminate into TTRs or by eventually breaking a trendline. Although the trendline broke at b66, the trader should already expect a trend termination at the poor oio at b37 and confirmation by the weak A2 at b44 and the two legged failed breakout at b57. The expanding triangle (XT) breakout is comparatively the easiest to detect and trade. An expanding triangle is simply a series of fBOs, each enlarging the range after trend failure. The trading range after trend termination begins with the reversal or climax pattern itself (b35 high to b37 low) and every move is just an attempt to expand the range. Once both ends of this pattern are taken out, you can take trades and expect them to move to the other end until you get both a HH and HL for a bull breakout or LH and LL for bear breakout into trend. Note that the breakout could be either up or down regardless of the direction of the previous trend. The HL or LH will usually be a two legged move and today the doji bar b70 separated the two legs down. This point is the first pullback in the new trend and is the best swing entry for the rest of the trend.
152

MONDAY, MARCH 7, 2011
oio reversals and failures
I've often spoken about how outside bars are trading ranges and are often fade candidates. I also mention oio reversals. How do you distinguish between a legitimate oio reversal and just a trading range bar? There are several factors that may make an oio successful. For example prior strength, an overshoot, the two outside bars being of comparable length but the most important factors are the entry bar size and its low holding through pullbacks. When the latter outside bar is large, the stop is too large and consequently many buyers will not enter, and those who do will use various money stops of 4t or 6t etc., in other words, these buyers are weak. If the entry bar is weak and its low is taken out as in b13 or gives a sell signal beyond its low as in b34, then its a high probability short. If the entry bar is a strong trend bar as in b46 and its low cannot be taken out on multiple attempts, then the trend will terminate. A poor reversal signal b45 followed by a poor continuation signal at b51 is a sign of trend termination and one should be looking for breakouts into new trends at this point. But until a trend terminates, oio failures are possibly your best bet to get into a hard trend move since they present such few opportunities to get in late if you missed the 1PB entries at b7 or b13.
153

TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2011
The obvious first reversal
Days that have small trend bars that move 3 or more points from the open bar and reverse after a trend channel violation on a reversal bar that has at least a 2t body (regardless of color) are clear and obvious first reversals and should be taken. If the reversal bar is about the same size as the previous bar, it increases the chances of a successful reversal. These can be taken even if they do not have prior strength in the day as long as there is some indication of strength such as a prior attempt up (the gap) or strength from yesterday. If on the other hand the first one or two bars is large, its possibly a trading range and you should look for an expanding triangle breakout into trend. When in doubt due to multiple large bars, if the second attempt in a direction fails, you can take a trade in the opposite direction. If nothing is clear wait for a breakout and then take the first pullback. A clear first reversal is likely to bring in lots of traders and you can expect a strong trend in the new direction. A weaker first reversal may not go much beyond the first bar before it gives a pullback. So on most days, the first pullback is easier to read and safer to enter and you can avoid the first reversal completely.
154

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2011
The poor first reversal and triangle open
When a day opens right in the center of a previous day, the price will oscillate up and down trying to find resistance and often results in a trading range day. On such days taking every reversal is feasible if the swings are large (say 6+ points). Usually, the price forms an expanding triangle as it takes out every new extreme. Occasionally such as today, we get a triangle breakout. Two lower highs interleaved with two higher lows form a triangle as we had at the open with b4,5,7,8,9 Triangle breakouts into trend often fail and turn into expanding triangle breakouts as we saw today but can result in a runaway trend if the open is on a large gap up or down from previous day. When the first reversal is not clear as in b3 due to bear close, small reversal bar compared to previous bar and no overshoot of TCL, the price often fails after taking out the first bar as we did today at b13. Once we got a poor A2 long at b40 that no one took, the trend basically ended and the best thing to do is to wait for a breakout. A late DP breakout at b78 may have started a late break into a down trend that may continue tomorrow.
155

THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2011
Failed breakouts
Today's entry represents the center square of the nine transitions. The trick to trading failed breakouts is to only trade them in trading ranges and when previous strength in your trade direction is proven. Trying to trade fBO in trends is disastrous, wait for overshoot or trendline break first. Today's open bar was large and any large bar (3+ points where an average bar is around 2 pts) and large bars near the open are trading ranges regardless of the size of the opening gap. Since b1 is a trading range, it can be traded as a trading range. You can sell a breakout pullback of b1 by selling below b5 or buy b14 as a second attempt to fail the breakout. Note that if we did not have the strength of b4 and b11, this would be a low probability trade. The move to b43 can be seen as a trend move from b14 to b31, its trendline break on the move to b37 and a move to a nominal higher high. This is a trend termination and possible reversal. b46 was a second attempt to fail the breakout after b44 and therefore a high probability trade. A first attempt can be taken if the signal bar is very well formed such as a reversal bar on overshoot. If not, its very likely a poorly formed first attempt will fail and possibly stop you out. A cursory glance at today's action will illustrate the importance of taking only well formed signal bars. Shorts below b16,20,24,27 all failed because they were essentially doji bars. Shorts below b31,b46 and b63 fared much better since they were trend bars. Lower bar quality is tolerable for the first hour and second attempts as illustrated by b14 and b73. In summary, to correctly trade a failed breakout, you need at least two of prior strength, a great signal bar, an overshoot and second entry.
156

FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2011
Triangle breakouts
Triangle consolidations can be easy to identify such as the obvious one from b4 to b22 but their breakouts are tricky to predict. Although they could go either way, the relative strengths of bars will usually give an indication of which way they will break. The strong trend bars making the up moves while taily bars making the down moves such as today usually imply and upward break. Triangle breakouts lead to very strong trends, and you should always take them, especially if you get a breakout pullback signal such as b25. The biggest risk trading triangles is they often turn into expanding triangles. That is to say after the breakout at b26, it could have easily broken below b9 and then back up again. This is why you always need to take some profit on a strong breakout out of the triangle. If the pullback is not strong enough to turn into an expanding triangle, it often gives a 2 legged pullback such as the A2 at b46. This is usually an excellent trade if its deep since the ones who missed the breakout will enter with you.
157

MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
Breakout pullbacks vs failed Breakouts.
When there is a breakout you need to decide if you want to trade the breakout's failure (fBO) or if you want to trade a breakout pullback (BP), which essentially is a failure of the fBO. In general, there are a couple of guidelines to help you make the decision. If the breakout bar was a strong trend bar that is halfway out of the previous range (or TL or ema) such as b13, there is a good chance you will get a breakout pullback entry that will take you to at least a measured move of the previous range. You should always wait for a pullback before entering if the breakout bar is large (say 3+ points). The second hint is the strength of the prevailing trend. If it looks like there is any sort of steep trendline, there is a good chance the breakout will succeed. If the trendline is very shallow, it does not contribute to the success of the breakout. If the breakout bar is small (1 to 2 points) with a shaved close, you can enter right at the close or a tick beyond. This is especially true if the breakout is counter to the previous large move and closes beyond the ema. If the breakout bar is medium size (2 to 3 points) or has a tail on the close wait for a breakout failure. If two attempts to fail the breakout are unsuccessful, you can enter in the direction of the original breakout. Weak breakout bars often result in failed breakouts, especially a second attempt, which worked like an outside bar at b42. Note that to trade in the direction counter to the previous trend, the previous trend should have terminated (via TTR or overshoot or trendline break)
158

TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2011
Wide range days
The first time a huge gap down appears in a down move, there is a very good chance it will be bought and turn into a bull day. Bear moves bring large range days and one needs to exercise great care when trading these, especially the first few bars. One option is to trade a shorter timeframe, but you need to be more agile and your failure rate could be higher. The second option is to trade fewer contracts, which is not usually an option for traders who are already trading small size. The best option therefore is to only enter on small bars and even on big days you will eventually get such a set up. When there is a strong trend move at the open, you should always take a 1st pullback and hold it till you encounter signs of trend termination. If you get a windfall because of a couple of large bars, its ok to exit and wait for the next trade or end your session. On a FOMC day, its best to wait for a breakout bar and go with its failure. Today we had a strong bar b58 whose low did not trigger and the price broke above the trading range. a BP long trade at b62 gave a measured move of the trading range between b36 and b58. Traders who held till the end of day or sold at the 3rd push of the spike and channel from b59 to b76 profited 30 points or so and this is something you can often see in wide range days of bear moves.
159

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2011
Trading strong bear days
Trading strong bear days is one of the hardest things a trader can do for various reasons. The major challenge is that the price moves very quickly and pullbacks are equally violent. Shorting mid bar or below a large bar is extremely dangerous, as sellers near the lows of b19 and b58 were rudely reminded. Note that before b58 there were 3 other bars that would be considered large and only look small in comparison to the huge bars near b58 and 59. When bars form on days like these, they wiggle a lot and will usually take out your breakeven stops so a better strategy is to take longer scalps and use slightly larger stops. When a trend is in motion, MTL breaks can be used to enter with the move. Almost every bar in the down move had a bottom tail or an inside bar following it. These are sharp intra-bar pullbacks, making it hard to enter a swing position and forcing the trader to scalp a point or two and look for the next entry.
160

If you are an agile trader, you could probably trade a faster chart such as the 1minute chart. The intra-bar wiggles and sharp pullbacks form normal sized signals and can be traded for more entries. Tick charts and range charts can also be used, but price action varies slightly on such charts and its not something you would be trading on a day like this without a lot of practice.
161

THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011
Double top and double bottoms
Double tops and double bottoms are important trend terminators and are the easiest to identify. Once the price forms a trend terminator, a transition from a trend to a trading range is complete and you should no longer be thinking in terms of trend continuation, but rather trend breakout. On a trend day, you usually find at most one of these. Trading range days can have two or even three. Any overshoot of a trend channel line by the bars that form the DP increases the chances of a deep pullback and a wide trading range, allowing a possible trade off the double top or bottom. On a trading range day, any 2 legged move to the other end of the trading range can still be traded as if they were an A2 (b31 and b46) even though they are strictly not trend continuation. Once a trend has terminated in one direction, the next breakout could be in either direction, so its a good idea to enter every 2 legged move if its sufficiently well formed. Any pullback close upto midway of the bars forming the double top/bottom can be treated as a DP and shorted for a swing. An inside bar such as b59 serves as a pullback after a DB or DT so you could treat it as a DP signal.
162

FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2011
Buy above bull bars, sell below bear bars
Buying above bull bars and selling below bear bars and avoiding any other bar is a critical component of price action trading. If you get eager and enter on marginal bars, you will reduce your success rate. If you shorted only bear bars after a move up or bought only bull bars after a move down and hold for at least one point, you will make money on most days. Of course, on soft trend days or hard trend days you wouldn't want to do this but on the other 80% of the days this should leave you in the black at the end of the day. In the chart above, successful buys are indicated by blue dots and failed buys are indicated by red dots. Blue diamonds signify successful shorts and red diamonds indicate failed shorts. For example, even though today was an overall bear day, the only buy above a bull bars that failed were inside bars b5 and b70. These are not buys per price action principles and you wouldn't be buying them. Similarly the only bear bar that would fail was b17, an inside bar variant you wouldn't be shorting. If you only took the longs on non-inside bull bars for 1 point you would have +5. Shorting below non-inside bear bars at a swing move would give you an additional +8. Just don't forget the inside bar and doji exclusion rule. While they sometimes work, knowing when its appropriate to trade these exceptions takes quite a bit of experience.
163

MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2011
TTR trend terminations
Trends can terminate into a TTR after a large move up and this includes large gaps. A TTR that slopes up after a pullback will often make a double top or nominal HH or LH. If on the other hand a TTR slopes down from the high of the day, then it may make a two legged or three legged move near the high of the day and then move down. BW early in the day as we saw near b6 is often an early sign of TTRs and soft trends and one should take trades very carefully. Once the TTR has terminated the trend, the next move is to wait for a trend breakout such as expanding triangles or DP. Any two legged move can be traded if the range is large enough. Today the range was barely 5 or six points so you would risk about 2 points to essentially make 2 points or less. Normally, its best to avoid trading at this point. A huge gap up day that does not go anywhere is often a consolidation and a gap on the next day is likely to extend the gap and turn into a trend day.
164

TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2011
Small range days
Small range days are extremely choppy and usually higher risk since every trade needs to be a scalp. Price action will be hard to read and bars will usually look terrible. In general I avoid trading these days and often take no trades. You need to be an excellent scalper with a high percentage of success to trade these days. Bars that had a small range the previous day and open with no gap or tiny gap (less than one bar) are candidates for small range days. If the first few two legged moves do not go too far and are made of overlapping bars, there is a good chance it will be small range day. On days like this, do not expect any move to go much beyond the previous swing point. Counter-trend trades are extremely unproductive since the price is unlikely to move beyond a couple of points off your entry.
165

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
The swing view
One of the reasons A2 is my favorite entry is that if you can get one relatively early on a trend day, you can choose to ride it till it stops you out by taking out a previous swing low. For example, if you entered above b34 today, you could move the stop every new swing low and you would finally be taken out at b78. On days when the A2 does not turn into a trend day, this may mean a loss of a point or two but on trend days you could take in 8 points or more. For example, in our chart today, its quite OK to miss all the turns and bends before the A2 at b34 if you have the patience to ride it to the end. This is why mastering A2 is far more important than getting the first reversal and pullback right. First pullbacks however, are crucial on large gap open days and possible hard trend moves. This is because the move after the 1PB could be most of the move of the day. When a 1st pullback signal bar is weak such as b6 today, chances are it won't be a runaway trend so its ok to skip it. If you want to be a with trend trader, a good option is to wait for A2 for the first trade of the day. If there is no A2, chances are the day will not trend and its ok to sit out rather than get chopped by tiny moves.
166

THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011
TTRs are trading ranges
Trends can terminate into a TTR after a strong move when there is no real overshoot. The TTR could be flat, with trend like today or opposite to the trend. Either way, when a trend terminates in a TTR, you should exit at the next with-trend push and wait for a breakout pattern to emerge. When a trend terminates rather than just reversing, it has turned into a trading range and will attempt to breakout of the trading range. A rising trend will test the bottom (b42 and b53) while a falling trend would test the top of the range. A successful break of the trend bottom may give a BP entry in the direction of the breakout. A failure will cause the price to test the other end of the TTR and breakout possibly giving a BP entry (b68) If the TTR range is large enough, you can buy near the low of the range and sell near the top until you get a successful breakout. Flat TTRs on the other hand almost always breakout in the direction of the previous trend. This is because they are ii or iii flags on larger timeframes. Another reason is a possible absence of counter-trend strength in a horizontal move.
167

FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2011
Breakout pullbacks as trend generators
When a move ends in a TTR, the right thing to do is to exit your position, say near bar 20 or so and wait for more price action. Yesterday we had nearly similar price action with a pullback to ema followed by a rally that ended in an up-sloping TTR. The TTR broke down to test the low of the channel and whereas yesterday it failed and moved to the top of the channel, today it succeeded as a breakout pullback. There were two clues to read this correctly. Two attempts to fail the breakout did not go anywhere (b44 and b47). This resulted in a breakout pullback trade that should give at least two legs down. The A2 pullback to b70 meant at least two more legs down that ended in bar 78. Compare this to the price action yesterday at b42 and b53. The price couldn't even close below the BO point. The follow through on the second attempt was decent enough (no pullback below previous bar for many bars, multiple closes above ema, break above swing high) that the second attempt to fail the breakout was successful enough to warrant a test of the other end of the trading range.
168

MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011
Late trends
When trends breakout late in the day after an entire day of horizontal movement (as opposed to a late continuation or reversal move), they tend to go on till the end of day without any break or reversal. This is because scale in traders will not trade counter-trend since there is insufficient time to make scale in plays. This results in a sharp rally or sell off that you should hold till the close. The early move from open to HOD was weak with overlapping bars and was essentially a test of yesterday's high. Once it failed, the price dropped to test the low of the trading range. A breakout below the LOD at b26 was sustained for two more bars, which is a good sign that a BP trade would set up and it developed at b46. A DP trade, which by its nature is a higher probability trade developed at b63 followed by an A2 at b72,73. Note that every decent short signal since b16 has been successful, so the A2 was certainly a swing candidate. Even if you missed all these, b74, a short shaved trend bar just below the ema is a fairly good entry bar and could be shorted on its own merit.
169

TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2011
Classic trend day
"In bear markets, stocks open strong and close weak.In bull markets, stocks open weak and close strong." When the market opens close to the low, runs down and reverses near the low, its usually a good indication for a possible bull trend move. The safest entry is at the first pullback and you should be able to hold on to it till the end of the day or trend termination. Sometimes horizontal TTRs will set in that almost always break in the direction of the prior trend. The best way to get in this move is on a breakout pullback like b51 today. A horizontal TTR is usually a shallow pullback on a higher timeframe chart. One way to save your self being chopped up is to look at a 30m chart and take an entry there. For example, today's move was a shallow A2 pullback on the 30m chart. Nevertheless, if you only moved your stop below every two legged higher low, you could have held the swing portion of the trade till close.
170

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2011
Trading ranges: breakouts, fBO, BP and TT (trend terminations)
Trading range days can be traded well with some price action analysis. If the first few bars are taily and overlapping, there's a good chance you have a trading range day. The trick to analyzing trading range action is to look at them as series of failed breakouts and breakout pullbacks. The very first bar was a trading range bar. The second bar ticked below the first bar, then ticked above giving two fBO of b1. b3,7,10 were also failed breakouts. Failed breakouts of a trading range can only be expected to test the other end of the trading range and sometimes they may not reach the other end but give a breakout pullback. If the signal bars are well formed, you can trade a second attempt to fail the breakout (b13 is a second attempt to fail the breakout below b4, the recent low of the day), but you should only expect it to go to the other end of the range (b7 high, reached at b19). When the other end of the range is reached, you may get a breakout pullback. This is a high probability trade and should be expected to go to a measured move of the prior range (b44). Trends terminate when you have highs and lows sideways rather than HHs and HLs. So at b62, we have two lows and two highs that are no longer in a trend. Often, this will breakout into a new trend in a breakout pullback pattern again. Often, its in the direction of the prior trend but if the price action has been marginal, it may break down as it did today. Regardless of whether b74 is an A2 or BP, its basically the same trade. The price tried to move twice in one direction and failed, so it tries to test the other end. If you already had a low that was close to the prior low(b53 near b40) and you get a two legged move to a LH (B62) or DT, its best to exit since the next move up may not go above this point. So to summarize, BP are trend generators, fBO are fades, TT are exit (but not reversal) signals
171

THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011
Determining trend day versus Trading range day
Trend days and trading range days require different kinds of trading and being able to recognize them early is essential for successful trading. On a trading range day, the range could be small like today and any swing entries are likely to be taken out. The easiest way to differentiate between them is to take a step back and look at the chart after the first few bars. if the price hasn't moved a large distance from the opening bar, you are likely to encounter trading range action. If the price has moved 3 or more points beyond the first bar (even if it has subsequently turned around), its likely to give you some trending action. On a trending day, you can enter a swing entry on the first pullback and ride it till the trend terminates. You could also enter on A2 or other continuation setups and most trades are likely to succeed with trend. On a trading range day, you are essentially going to encounter a series of failures. Occasionally, a trend will breakout from a trading range but predicting breakouts is hard even for experienced traders and most breakouts fail (every breakout today failed). When the price tries to breakout beyond the trading range, you could enter with the second failure. This has a good chance of working if the signal bar has a strong close such as b8 and b26. When signal bars are poor or overlapping such as b52 ii or b58, you should trade lighter and take smaller profits. A fBO entry needs to be very strong to qualify for a swing move and while second failures tend to test the other extreme of the range, there is some chance it does not go that far. Most of your targets should be modest. If it does breakout strong and then gives a pullback, its a possible trend generator and you can enter with the new trend. To summarize: Trend days give swings and continuations; Trading range days may only give fBOs. fBO are riskier, lower percentage trades that should only be entered on strong setups for smaller targets.
172

FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011
Trending Trading ranges
Trading ranges can break into trends from a BP but sometimes they break into higher trading ranges. Usually, there is one break back into a prior trading range during the day. Trending trading ranges are traded exactly like trading ranges. Once your get a breakout pullback, if the trend terminates for any reason (today, TTR b16 to b25) you should look for new breakouts or fBO trades. Today, we got a breakout pullback back into the lower range at b58. A break into a prior range usually tests the other end of the range (b5 low). If you miss the initial BP or chose not to take it due to the BW price action, you could enter below the bo bar b63 as long as the bar is not too long (say under 2 points). There were very few reliable trades today. The price action after the early move was poor consisting of 2 and 3 tick dojis and its usually a good idea not to trade them and simply wait for a breakout and then choose to enter a high probability trade.
173

MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2011
Days with poor bars
Sometimes for days on end, you can have days with bars that are four ticks or less and many are often dojis. Days such as these are not very productive and every breakout only goes a point or two. There are a few ways to deal with these days. The simplest option is to not trade such days or trade very few setups. If you get in early, for example the 1st reversal below b4, you could hold on till you see a clear sign of reversal at say bar 55 and ignore all the poor bar setups. The second option is to take modest profits, say 4ticks for every entry. You should trade smaller size say half your normal size, since you are likely to get stopped out. You could add on the other half where your stop would normally be taken out. This way, you have a better chance of exiting with a modest profit. The third option is to fade poor setups using limit orders on such days. For example, b13 was a poor setup and it had a poor entry bar. A limit trader could short the close or high of b14 with the plan of adding on some more shorts if it moves against the trade. If you choose to do this, keep the trend direction in mind and take only with trend trades (dont short after the b55 reversal for example.)
174

TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2011
Trend reversals
Most trend reversals you see intra-day are likely to be Wedge reversals. Often there is an overshoot and a reversal bar on the third push and this makes the reversal very clear. However, for bullish trends, there may be no overshoot at all. Three pushes up by itself does not make a wedge. You need something else, such as a TCL overshoot, a reversal bar or a final flag (FF) as in b47 at the end of the third push to qualify it as a reversal. The three pushes also need to be counted from trend breakout, therefore b5 does not count as a push. Once the FF triggers, you can look to short. If you do not wish to short the BWish FF, you should simply wait for an A2 short entry such as b62. The rate of success for shaved or trend signal bars are high and you should taken those rather than dojis. For example, b65 is an ii, but its an L1 and also a doji so you are better off waiting for a bar like b67 which has higher probability.
175

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011
Two legged W1P
The best W and W1P are off strong reversal bars. Sometimes, the reversal bar could be an outside bar as in b32, which is a possible trading range. The entry bar could be small (b33) and its low taken out (b34). Normally, this is not a W1P candidate. However, due to the extensive overshoot, there will certainly be a bullish pullback at least. When a bar such as b32 forms the reversal bar, due to the overlap, there is a very good chance the entry bar will be taken out. Next, if you get a failed continuation signal (such as the failed A2 short at b38), then there is a good chance it will act as a 2 legged W1P. Note that when the W signal bar and entry bar are strong reversal and trend bars, the pullback should not go more than 1t below the W entry bar. If the W reversal bar was weak because it was bearish or a doji or too large or not a deep overshoot, this is no longer a W1P but simply a trend termination into a trading range and you should look for breakouts and failed breakouts.
176

THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2011
Breakout tests as trend continuations
A breakout test (BT) is a pullback to -1t to +2t of your original entry. Essentially, this means that the traders are re-affirming the original trade and the price is likely to continue in the same direction. BTs are an important indicator or trend continuation. BT is one of the rare places where you can treat a doji bar as a valid signal bar. A BT after a reversal bar is a form of 1st pullback trade and can lead to a large move. On a day that's essentially a large triangle day such as today, you can have BT on both sides as the price tries to consolidate. BTs are a few places you can buy limit, since the stop is simply beyond the prior swing point. However, conservative traders can simply wait for the bar to form and then enter on a stop beyond the signal bar. BTs are not limited to bars at swing points. Trend lines, ema (b31), and basically any barrier that the price breaks through can give a breakout test.
177

FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011
A channel like trend usually has a second similar leg
When a trend that is moving practically in a channel, it will effectively act as one leg (and usually is on a larger timeframe). When such a trend breaks, there is a very good chance that the break is simply a pullback and the trend will resume into a second leg of comparable size. b25 broke the AM down trend and terminated the first leg. A strong outside bull bar in a bear trend is a trading range and you should trade it like a trading range. If there is a strong breakout, you could trade a BP (b36) and if it fails, you could trade a fBO that should take you to the other end of the range. At this point, you could take a BP short. A second attempt (b57) is effectively an A2 and therefore a high probability short.
178

MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2011
The first two legged pullback of the day
If you could only trade one trade a day, the first two legged pullback is the best candidate. You should take out at least 1 contract at +1 and let the rest run. Usually, if the day is going to be a trend day, this is your best chance at leaving a stop at breakeven and getting most of the move. If your breakeven stop is hit, there is a good chance this would not be a big trend day. A second option is to move the stop after every new high or low. So for example, after b34, you could move your stop above b28, then move it above b37 when b38 makes a new low and so on. If you took some more off at a larger target, say +4, you could then move the stop only after 2 legged moves, so say above b56 after b64 made a new low. On days that do not have a two legged pullback, well you dont need to trade since its possibly a hard trend day or a trading range day, which are not amenable to swinging.
179

TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2011
Anatomy of a trading day
I generally view the trading day as a series of sections that are comprised of the following: 1. The opening bar 2. The opening range 3. Breakout and possible reversal of the opening range 4. The AM trend 5. Lunch consolidation 6. Breakout from lunch consolidation 7. The PM trend
This breakdown is a guide and not iron-clad law. Some days may look like lunch the entire day and we call those small range days. Some days will start with the first reversal and the AM trend may continue into the close. We call these trend from 1st bar days. You need to adapt your expectations to the price action you see early in the day. For example, a day with large counter-trend bars in the early trend may give a stronger breakout attempt from the lunch consolidation, while weak or no counter trend bars may result a shallower attempt. How do you trade these? In general, if the first bar is a trend or reversal bar and has a strong close and is beyond the range of the previous day, you could trade its breakout, especially if its trying to close the gap. Often this is the best entry on such days. On most days however, its best to let the opening rage define itself and either fail its breakout or enter on its breakout pullback. This is your best chance of getting into the AM trend. On many days, if you have a winning day at the end of the AM trend (usually 2 hours after open), you can simply choose to end your trading session and enjoy the rest of the day. This is because lunch session is usually full of poorly formed bars and dojis and most traders get trapped and lose some of their earnings. Occasionally, there are trades and breakouts during lunch hour but if you want to trade, note that most trades are at best scalps on most days. The market will attempt to breakout of lunch and sometimes it succeeds, but often this move will fail and turn into a PM trend. The PM trend can run till close but occasionally, profit taking will cause a pullback. Overall, your best strategy is to get most of the AM trend, sit out the lunch (or scalp if you are good at it) and fade the lunch breakout.
180

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011
Signs of trend strength
The first leg from b1 to b10 showed various signs of trend strength today: ñ Reversal bar with strong close (1t or less tail on entry side) ñ Trapped traders (b3) ñ 1tf (b5) ñ No counter trend bars (b5 was not a trend bar)
All these implied more down, despite the strong pullback from b10 to b16. b23 was a double shaved ema breakout bar. Usually, these bars have follow through and can be traded on their own with high probability provided they are small and breakout at least 4t into the other side. b26 was a rare range expansion bar. This is when a TCL OS expands the range rather than cause a pullback or reversal. Range expansion bars after a turn usually indicate increasing strength in the direction of the expansion. The width of the channel increased, indicating buyers did not step in where they normally do. (After an extended move, what looks like a range expansion bar is likely to be a climax bar and should not be taken as a sign of strength.) Breakout tests are also strong continuation signals and can be taken on a single leg (L1/H1) and on marginal signal bars such as dojis. These may not work if the signal bar is not triggered on the very next bar (b46). A HL double bottom(b58) after a possible reversal (b40) indicates at least a comparable leg in the same direction (b59 to b67). Signs of strength can be used as a filter to avoid trading in the opposite direction in addition to trading them on their own. For example, a BT at b29 may imply that a b31 long is unlikely to be successful. Similarly, a HL DB at b58 may mean you should not fade the long breakout of the trading range from b43 to b58.
181

THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011
Trend trading
Trend days are easy to trade and you should make the best of it. Practically any with-trend setup will work and any style of trading is likely to work. Any trending indicator is also likely to work. On the other hand, counter-trend setups and oscillators are likely to give limited profit. When the market opened well beyond the range of the previous day, there was a good chance this would be a trend day. The first reversal (b5) was a great place to get in. Buying the low of the first bear bar (b9) is a limit trading style that's usable in a strong trend and worked very well. So did scaling in after every two point pullback through the pullbacks. So did buying two legged pullbacks on b28 and b55. Breakout tests worked well (b64) as did buying the ema and two points below the ema. So did buying the first reversal and/or pullback and holding it till EOD. The point is, you need to be very very bad to lose money on a day like this. When you do get a day like this, do not waste it, take every with-trend trade. The most important question however, is when do you know its a trend day? Technically, a trend exists the moment you have a higher high and higher low. So by b14 we are pretty sure we are in a strong trend. This still leaves quite a few trades till the end of the day to make some profitable trades. Anyone who is aware of price action trading realizes however, that the moment there is a large gap, its probably a trend day and the first reversal or pullback is a high probability entry and is worth taking.
182

FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2011
Trendline breaks
A hard trendline break has a comparable number of points before and after the break. For example, today the move from b43 down to b72 broke the trendline and there were about 2.5 points on either side of the break. Breaks that are merely dips beyond the trendline don't actually break the trendline, rather they only shift the trendline to a shallower angle. What this means is that some of the counter-trend energy is absorbed but the market is able to continue on with the trend. However, a hard trendline break terminates the trend. At this point the price will attempt to at least test the previous extreme (b43) and if it can only break out by a nominal amount (say a tick to a point beyond), then the market is likely to form a trading range between the two points. If any one of these points has a strong breakout, a breakout pullback could lead to a trend move. If the newly formed trading range (b43 to b76) is large enough, say 3 points or more, you could take a failed breakout trade to the other side of the range. If the breakout is very strong because it was a strong trend bar that closes many ticks beyond the previous high (such as b33 breaking above b8), then the trend is likely to continue, despite the trendline break. Sometimes the market is too weak to break beyond the previous extreme and only succeeds in a two or three legged move that comes close to the previous extreme. This should be treated the same as a test of the previous extreme and traded similarly.
183

MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2011
Trading TTR breakouts
Breakouts are the hardest to predict and trade correctly and most people are better off simply taking the first pullback after the breakout. However, its possible to correctly read and trade breakouts in some cases such as today's extended TTR between bars 28 and 46. The first clue was a channel move to the ema and three successful closes above it after three pushes down. The market then tried to sell off three times and failed. The first signal was an oio at b30, the second was an A2 variant at b34 and the last was an A2 at b43. True, they were all poor signals, but given the tenor of today's open and early move there was a good chance one of them should have at least given a scalp. An extended TTR breaks the trendline even if the price had not done so explicitly at b24 today. b46 completed 2 legs down to a higher low. After multiple failures to continue in the previous trend, the price is likely to breakout and move upwards for at least two legs. b46 was a weak bar if you judge it on its own but in the overall market context, it was a double bottom (with b25), a failed breakout (fBO) of the prior swing low and an A2 since its a two legged HL after a possible reversal (3 pushes down to a reversal bar at b20). Cautious traders can buy the next bull bar (b47) as long as its not too large. Note that this is a specific case of TTR trend break and reversal after an extended move (b1b20) and not to be applied anywhere you see barb wire. For most BW, you are better off fading a trend bar break out of the BW. Getting into the right side of a breakout requires lots of experience and most traders can simply take the BP at b56 or b61 (which was also an A2) There is one shortcut you can take if you recognize an extended TTR break of a trend. You can simply buy above any swing high (b47 or b42 depending on how liberal your read is) with a stop below the recent swing low (b46). You should move the stop below the entry bar (b49 or b51) as soon as it closes.
184

TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2011
Failed Wedges
Wedges rarely fail, but when they do, they usually give a measured move to the other side of the wedge. The move from the LOD b24 to b40 was three pushes up and b40 both was the third push and the trigger of the wedge. When the price moved above it without first giving two legs down, it was a failed wedge that should be expected to go a measured move up. Its important to note a few things about failed wedges.
1. Wedges rarely fail and well formed wedges -- with strong overshoots clear bars and strong reversal bars almost never fail.
2. If a wedge is triggered and moves at least two legs, the wedge condition is satisfied and if it then moves above the wedge its no longer a failed wedge and should not be expected to go to a measured move.
3. Most failed wedges are usually channels or channel like moves and are not overreactions.
4. True wedges represent extreme behaviors and these are unlikely to fail. Whenever you see a channel that gives a wedge type move, it you trade it, remember that occasionally they fail and you should reverse your position and trade it to the measured move
185

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2011
Consolidation after gap
A narrow horizontal day after a huge gap up is usually a consolidation day. This is when the overnight traders take profit and the ones who missed out on the big move enter. Usually this leads to a large move in either direction in a day or two. If the next day gaps down, this could lead to a large move down and in principle is similar to island reversals on daily charts. A day like this is traded like a normal trading range day and if you traded any two legged move, you probably did well.
186

THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2011
Trading tight trading range days
For most traders, the best way to trade a tight trading range is to not trade at all. If you do want to trade, the best setups are to fade the breakouts high and low of the day. This approach raises the following questions: 1. how do you know its a tight trading range day? 2. what if there is a large breakout? The answers are simple. When the size of bars falls under 4 ticks for many bars and the range of the day is small, its very likely to be a tight trading range day. Trading mid-range is extremely dangerous, since there is a very high chance of the trade failing even before it reaches the other end of the range for example by forming a higher double bottom. To maximize your chances of success, you should fade weak breakouts of the range or failed breakout patterns such as DP. You should never worry about missing strong breakouts out of a tight trading range. A tight trading range rarely breaks into a trend right away. The bar size may increase to above 4 ticks sustained for a few bars and the price may also break out of both sides of the range forming an expanding triangle breakout.
187

MONDAY, APRIL 25, 2011
The importance of getting into the AM trend
The price action on low volume days will not produce many clear signals. Even so, the first hour or two will produce a few trading signals and you should try to get in on them. For example, today gave a first reversal on b5 followed by a 1PB on bar 7. This led to the biggest move of the day. Unfortunately, it stopped out the breakeven stops of any entries below b7, but that is perhaps to be expected for a gapless doji open. Anyone who hesitated to short b7 could short the b10 BT bar if they wished to. The move quickly trend terminated (TT) into a TTR from b12. The trend breakout and failure the second time was worth taking at b22 but the price action quickly turned into successive 3t bars. This is a good reason to exit and stop trading since a low volume day is unlikely to produce large moves.
188

TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 2011
Spike and channel
Any relatively large move in a short timeframe is a spike, usually a single bar but sometimes can be multiple bars. In today's example, the move from b11 to b15 can be regarded as a single spike. If the spike closes strong, i.e. near the top as in today's example, the strength will cause with trend traders to buy the close of any small bar and counter-trend traders will trade lightly, causing a channel move. Spikes that close strong often (but not always) move to a measured move of a large spike. Spikes that close weak, for example a large bar that closes midway may simply channel to one of its extremes. Sometimes spikes will form in both directions and a channel will move to the extreme of one of the bars. Spike and channels usually have three pushes and they will normally pullback to the beginning of the channel as we see at b49 today. At this point it is typical for the S&C to retrace at least half the move as we did upto b70. There are many ways to trade spike and channels. You could enter with-trend after the first (b22) and possibly the second (b28) pullback. Normally, this should be done only with a strong close of a large spike. A small spike with a weak close may not move more than a point or two and may not be worth the risk. Aggressive scalpers can simply buy the close of any shaved bar or any pullback bar and exit on every push. The second option is to wait until three pushes are complete and if the channel covers 3 points or more, fade it until it goes back to the start of the channel. Once the pullback is complete, you may have an opportunity to trade upto half the new trading range if you get a good signal such as the G2 at b50.
189

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2011
Trend strength is proportional to Bar size and Trading range size
I have previously discussed Breakout Pullbacks as Trend generators. Today was essentially the same move after a successful break above the high of the day at b54 followed by a 2L PB. The best BP is one that occurs after an actual breakout like b61, rather than one which almost breaks out like b50. Since a trend birth from a BP often goes to a measured move (b74) of the trading range, it follows that breaks out of larger trends result in stronger moves with shallower pullbacks if the BP is a late move. Any large bars with a strong close such as b38 today give an indication of the potential move. When the move is potentially large, there may be no pullbacks or very shallow pullbacks (b68,69). You can buy above any small bar, regardless of color until the MM is hit.
190

THURSDAY, APRIL 28, 2011
Fading two legged moves in a Trading range
When the day opens within the range of the prior day, especially if there is no gap between the first bar of today and the last bar of the previous day, there is a very good chance the day will turn into a trading range day. That's not really surprising, since most days are indeed trading range days. A trend day was still possible at the 1PB at b15 but the deep sell-off from the second leg at b24 is an indication of a trading range day. At this point any 2L PB can be taken in both directions until there is a breakout of the HOD b20 or LOD b1. Similarly, a failed breakout also indicates changes to your trading pattern. A double bottom above the LOD (or DT below HOD) is technically the second failure to create a new extreme and is a form of a fBO. A DP is the first pullback after it and usually indicates a move to the other extreme of the range. b47 buyers therefore should only trade long until a test of the HOD. A success and pullback is a BP trend generator and a failure is an fBO trade
191

FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 2011
The importance of good signal bars
Some traders feel that they can read the general direction of the market correctly, but they always get stopped out of their entries. Attempting to solve this problem using wider stops usually means larger potential losses. When using signal bar boundaries for stop and entry, you should not need a stop larger than the other end of the signal bar if you choose your entry correctly. A poorly formed bar is usually the reason for being stopped out including two of my trades today. For example in the chart above, b1 is a poor buy signal since its a doji and resulted in a 5tf. b4 on the other hand is a fade of the 5tf since it closed at its low, a much stronger signal. b13 is a poor signal bar for 1PB and the right thing to do is to pass it up since the entry would force you to sell the ema. b21 is a overlapped doji and therefore is a marginal WP and fBO trade (1t below hod). b28 was a poor BP signal and b29 is a poor fBO signal since they are both small dojis. All tiny bars that gave H1 signals all the way to b47 are poor signals and only b32 buyers possibly managed to scalp out. All tiny bars should be considered to be dojis regardless of their shape. The only acceptable place to take a doji is a second entry and after a deep pullback or extreme of a TR. Even then your trade can fail when the general bar formation is poor. For example, b55 buyers scalped out while b60 buyers hit a 5tf.
192

MONDAY, MAY 2, 2011
A second failed BP is a trend generator
Breakouts of new trends need some experience to read correctly. Today b13 was a breakout above b1 giving a breakout and setting up a BP. b15 and b19 setup extremely weak BP signals that very few traders took. The second failed attempt to turn up makes this a failed A2 and sets up a trend move that is likely to test the low of the entry bar b5 at the very least. When the range is wide enough and the bars are normal sized (6 to 8t), a fBOs on one side often results in a successful BP on the other. b33 provided an A2 that was similar but succeeded and went to a measured move of the opening range at b38. The move was channel-like and in spite of the final flag that followed b38, there was a very good chance that its low would at least be tested. To summarize, if a break above the HOD or below the LOD in the AM move gives a poor 2 legged pullback, its failure is likely to reverse the breakout and is a likely trend generator.
193

TUESDAY, MAY 3, 2011
Choosing the right reversal
Most traders lose money trading counter-trend and this is mainly because they are trying to fade a trend that is still strong. The right time to change sides is after the trend is broken and its low is tested. Of course, an overshoot into a Wedge is the other possibility. Today opened as an expanding triangle breakout and after the price failed to break to a new high at b28, moved into a test the low at b16. Until the price breaks below b16, its still not a real trend, since an expanding triangle can indeed become a narrowing triangle. Once the price broke below b16 decisively on b48 which also happened to be a failed G2, the trend was in place and only short trades should be taken. Traders who bought anything that looked like a reversal bar lost on b49, b52 and possibly b57. Once the trendline breaks, especially if the break is on a strong trend bar such as b60, the next signal is a high probability entry after a nominal lower low (b66). Any move that goes much lower should not be bought and a new trendline break is required before any countertrend entries.
194

WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 2011
Large bars on open
Large bars on the open are usually a sign of spike and channel action. The channel itself may go on until the end of the day, but its usually not a hard trend. The best option is to take 2 legged pullbacks and second entry with-trend trades such as b21. A strong overshoot (b22) and a second entry (b41 same price as b36) are needed for a reversal entry as with any strong bear day. A trendbreak and test is likely to be rare. When the channel reverses, you should expect a pullback at the beginning of the channel, no matter how strong the reversal looks. The most important thing to remember is not to take a first reversal (b9) on a day with large bars. Its unlikely to succeed on the first attempt.
195

THURSDAY, MAY 5, 2011
Optimizing your stop size
Price action trading uses the signal bar boundaries as entry and stop loss. Bars vary in size and a large signal bar could mean a large risk while a small signal bar could give a stop that gets hit simply because the signal bar is too small to represent real risk management. Since larger stops represent larger risk, you can reduce your overall risk by picking entries that require smaller stops, thus improving your profitability. Suppose your entries consistently give +1 point profit before pulling back no more than 3 or 4 ticks, you should be able to reduce your stop size to 5t thus reducing your risk. Note that you need to be sure that if your stop is hit, there is a low probability of the price moving to your stop target. One way to do this is to check the Maximum Adverse Excursion (MAE) if your trading platform supports it. Today for example, my maximum adverse excursion (the pullback after taking me into the trade) was 2t as shown below.
You should calculate the likely MAE for winning entries for every setup you do trade. If a setup is likely to fail after a MAE greater than a certain number of ticks, that is your best stop. Keeping an eye on MAE allows you to concentrate only on setups that have the smalles MAE and also tune your reading of signal bar quality that allows you to select entries that are likely to have a smaller MAE. Once you can consistently tighten your stops, you can trade larger size with the same account size. Also your average win to average loss will improve, enhance your profitability. If the price moves to a profit target after taking out your stop more than a rare occasion, you need to refine your entries a bit more or relax your stops a bit more.
196

FRIDAY, MAY 6, 2011
Huge first bar
The first bar and the next few bars are often special, in that they indicate the possible kind of price action to expect for the rest of the day. A set of small dojis may indicate a tight trading range. A set of average sized bars may indicate a trend day. If the very first bar is a reversal bar off a huge gap, it could indicate a trend from the first bar. A large bar indicates lots of energy and possibly a wide range day. A huge first bar is occasionally a spike but almost always a trading range. When its a spike it will channel up slowly to a measured move of the size of the bar. When its a trading range, it generally means traders are likely to buy near its low and sell near its high. This bar needs to be traded just like any other trading range. If the breakout of the bar is strong, enter with trend on a pullback else fade the breakout. b2 was a 5tf for buyers above b1 and had a strong close. This itself is a reasonable entry if the entry price is near the top of the bar. You should never take the first failure near the center or low of the bar, since the very next bar could give a breakout pullback and therefore a 1PB with-trend entry. If a two legged entry sets up near one end of the bar (b9), you should take it and hold it till the other extreme of the bar. This is a kind of 1Rev trade. cz< Once it takes out the other extreme, you could get a BP continuation of a trend of fBO (b25 or b29) back to the lower extreme. A second attempt to BO is usually successful (b34) and will give a BP (b38) into a new trend.
197

MONDAY, MAY 9, 2011
The first reversal
The first reversal (1Rev) is a reversal after the first trend move of the day. This should be distinguished from a simple failed breakout such as a 1tf or 5tf of the first bar of the day. A fBO of the first bar (or even later bars) cannot be expected to make a large move, but a first reversal of a trend move usually does. There are many kinds of 1Rev. A reversal after the first successful scalp trade or at least a 6 tick move from the close of the previous bar is a type of 1Rev (b7). A reversal after a trend move however, is usually the best kind of 1Rev and is often the low or high of the day. A reversal bar after a large gap can be considered to be a first reversal since the large gap represents a trend move. If the opening gap is small or non-existent, it is best to wait for a trend move away from the first bar and take its reversal. Reading all variations of this is complex, but a simple filter is to take the reversal after the first two legged move of the day (b15). If this reversal gives a small two legged move in the direction of the trade, you should consider the possibility of an A2 setting up and you should exit your position and reverse on the A2, which is a kind of 1PB trade. Even if you never trade 1Rev or just scalp it, its useful to keep track of them since the 1st pullback after the first reversal (b27) is usually the best 1PB move of the day.
198

TUESDAY, MAY 10, 2011
The channel open
When the market opens and right away starts moving with overlapping bars with very small or no pullbacks below the previous bar, its opening into a channel. A channel move is simply a trend bar on a larger timeframe and usually there will be a second leg up if the channel breaks and moves sideways. A channel move should never be faded unless the channel gives an obnoxious overshoot. Channels usually terminate into poorly formed double top or double bottom formations or a doji bar or both (b14). If the channel only pulls back part of the way, say 50%, there is a very good chance there will be a comparable move in the original direction later in the day. You should look to enter on a G2 if you get a deep pullback. Often the pullback after the channel can go horizontal into a trading range if the channel gave a trend termination sign such as an ii (b13), DT (b14) or doji (also b14). Swing traders should wait for a breakout at this point and today we got a DP (b45), which is a trend generator. A DP should be expected to give a BP on the other end of the trading range and can be held for a swing till the measured move of the trading range is hit or another trend termination signal (b72).
199

WEDNESDAY, MAY 11, 2011
The first pullback
The first pullback after a trend move (1PB) is usually the best swing trade of the day. A trend move could be a large gap, a large trend bar or a channel move. The stronger the trend, the better the 1PB entry. This move is especially strong if it forms a 5tf off the first entry (1PB signal bar b5 hi was 5tf from b2). A second form of 1PB is the first 2 legged pullback (b24). When the 2 legged pullback is to the ema, its no different from an A2, but the first such entry is likely to give you the best swing move of the day. A 2 or 3 legged attempt to close the gap counts as both a 1Rev and 1PB and is usually a high probability trade. The second attempt to pullback (b9) is sometimes a 1Rev trade and therefore, it may be advisable to exit some or all of your position on the first push down and re-enter on the first 2L pb (b24). For new traders, 1PB is usually the best setup to take, if they are willing to not trade on days that do not present a clear 1PB.
200

THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011
The various types of 1PB
1PB normally denotes the first pullback after a trend move of the day. The idea behind 1PB applies to all trends and that is the first pullback in a new trend is a high probability trade. So the first pullback after a trend break or trend reversal are kinds of 1PB since they all represent the first pullback in a trend. When a 1st leg of the day is a strong trend move, there is some possibility that it may break below the low for a second leg. A strong reversal bar would make it an obvious reversal and you should not take a trade in the direction of the prior move. However, when the lower tail is small it could just be a trend bar pullback. An immediate continuation signal could be taken as a 1PB, if the signal is strong. If b5 had a bear close with a small or no lower tail, it would be a 1PB signal for another leg down. b5 however turned bullish at the last moment and turned out to be a poor 1PB signal that failed. b7 was obviously not a signal bar since an outside bar near the bottom of a range is a fade setup. b5 to b8 make a 1PB since they constitute a 2 legged pullback after a reversal. However, b8 was too large to buy and its best to wait for the next signal. b18 was a gap bar and an A2 and represented two failed attempts to selloff from near the open and the first PB with a reasonable risk, therefore a de facto 1PB. b34 was an A2 but it was the first pullback after an obvious trend breakout and is also worth taking.
201

FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2011
Obnoxious overshoots
When the price overshoots a trend channel by multiple points and one or two huge bars, the overshoot is obnoxious. If the overshoot ends in a well-formed reversal bar, the trend reversal will be very strong and is likely to erase the entire move. Often when the last one or two bars are very large, the trend will terminate but not reverse. The large bar(s) effectively form a trading range and the price action behavior resembles trading range movement. The price will try to breakout of either end and usually fail the first attempt. The best way to trade this is to scalp two legged moves and occasionally swing a failed breakout from one end if the range is sufficiently large. If the range is extremely large, the price may try to consolidate in a narrowing triangle before it finds new direction.
202

MONDAY, MAY 16, 2011
Strong Wedge
A wedge that moves well beyond the TCL but on reasonably sized bars is usually a very strong Wedge, especially if they end in a reversal bar. Such wedges may be hard to read since the test of the high after a strong move up is usually the rule and not the exception. A stronger entry bar at b21 would have perhaps made it easier to read this wedge reversal. A normal wedge can be expected to retrace the move from the first pullback, i.e, b5 low today. This explains the buying activity from b45 to b56. However, the reversal of the wedge failed and the price moved below b45. This is indicates a very strong down move and usually a measured move to the top of the wedge.
203

TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2011
Barb Wire
Any three overlapping bars where one is a doji can be called barb wire such as b1-b3, b20b24, b29-b32. There is no real way to trade barb wire except to fade it. This is because barbwire is a trading range and most trading range breakouts fail. There are two possible ways to fade barbwire. One is to fade any trend close. A trend close in a barbwire is likely to breakout on the other end. So you could sell the high or close a bull trend bar or you could buy the low or close of a bear bar. However, this is dangerous since there could be a breakout that takes your stop out. A simpler strategy is to wait for a trend bar breakout thats more than two ticks beyond the barbwire and fade it. The longer the barbwire runs and the stronger the breakout, the higher the chances of success. If the barb wire is made of tiny bars ( smaller than 4t ) there is a good chance that you will get a failed breakout multiple times, essentially forming an expanding triangle breakout. You need at least 6 to 8t to the other end of the barb wire to be able to fade the breakout. A barbwire after an extended move at an extreme of the day (b21-b24) often causes a reversal and you can swing some portion of your trade.
204

WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 2011
Strong Trends
While a large gap often indicates the possibility of a trend day, its not necessary. If the first few bars move beyond the range of the prior day and give a breakout pullback (b7), the day is likely to be a very strong trend day. A reversal bar right at the ema (b2) also often indicates a strong move. The only thing that you should never do in a strong trend is trade counter-trend. Simply stated, you could make far more buying pullbacks than shorting minor pullbacks. An overshoot giving a sideways correction (b19 to b34) is usually the sign of a very strong trend and a possible fW should be anticipated. In addition when the first move up is a channel like move (b1 to b20), a second leg after a horizontal move is normal. Possibly the most important sign of a strong trend is the absence of successful counter-trend trades. Until the second W at b57, not a single pullback went 6t below a swing high signal bar. This itself should assure you of the trend's strength and keep you on the right side throughout the move. The trend weakens when you start seeing large bars (b43,b56) and two closes below the ema (b59,60). The move also broke the trend line, but such strong momentum practically guarantees at least a test of the high and usually a higher high (b80). The single rule of taking only with-trend trades until at least one counter-trend trade has already proven successful would save many traders from fading an unstoppable trend.
205

THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011
TCL test on open
A TCL test on open may indicate the direction of the AM trend. A second failed overshoot of one or more TCLs from yesterday may indicate a reversal or at least a 2L move away from the TCL. When the gap is small, this can be simply viewed as a climax bar and a W type reversal on overshooting the TCL. If the gap is large, this often leads to the formation of a reversal bar and a possible trend from the 1st bar. Drawing the TCL from the prior day prevents you from taking an entry in the wrong direction and is especially helpful after a strong trend day or two.
206

FRIDAY, MAY 20, 2011
The most swingable setups
Until your winning percentage is very high, you should trade only swingable setups in order to be profitable. If you can make +2 or +4 on an A2, that's an average of +3 and if you lose -2 when you are wrong, you still come ahead most of the time even if your success rate is 50%. The most swingable setups are the following: The 1st pullback of the day. Includes an inside trend bar right after the entry bar as in today. This is basically an L2 and when close to the ema acts like an A2 or 2 legged 1PB. The first A2 of the day. When there is a trend move followed by a 2L pullback, this is very likely to be successful and give a move similar in size to the first leg. The first A2 after a reversal. When the price broke above b12 and the ema at b26 and gave a 2 legged pullback, this is a high probability swing setup likely to give 4 points. Any W1P or the first A2 after a W, fBO or any kind of key failure. W1Ps often retrace the entire wedge, so you can hold part of the trade for many points. All of these are basically the first pullback in a new trend and the only requirement is there is sufficient room for the price to move. A sharp AM trend increases the chances of any of these trades succeeding. If you have more than one reason to take a setup, then you could exit at +2 and +4 rather than +1 and +4.
207

MONDAY, MAY 23, 2011
Wedge failed breakout WfBO
Just as a trend from the open can originate without a gap, so can a large gap fail to produce a trend. Within the first couple of up and down pushes (b5), its usually obvious its a trading range day. On a trading range day, the best trades are usually fades of breakouts and b8 was our first signal. Failed breakouts are only expected to give two legs and there is no telling if the move will be shallow or deep. The highest probability fBO trades however are breakouts that occur on the third -- or if they are closely spaced -- the fourth push of the move, as in b33. These should be expected to fail and take out the other end of the range. Sometimes they may give a breakout pullback and a strong trend move on the other end but on other days such as today, they may fail on the other end as well (due to a second WfBO at b63 today). While WfBOs are great entries, often they are scalp entries and can give a deep pullback as in b13 after the b8 fBO entry. If a trend line or a swing is point taken out (b4 low taken out by b10, also broke TL b1,b6), then a BP entry may give a trend move. This is usually stronger if the move was a clear 2 legged move as in b40-b49 after taking out the swing point at b30 and breaking the TL b19-b33. When any fBO entry takes out the other end of the range, be prepared for failure and a move back into the range, especially in tight trading ranges since the magnetic effect of these is strong.
208

TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2011
Channels are trends
Channels are narrow trends and they should be traded just like trends. A channel after a spike often acts as a wedge consisting of three pushes. In general channels are basically trends and the momentum of the spike is what makes the channel after the spike move in three pushes and often overshoot a TCL. Channels without a clearly defined spike should also be traded like trends. A 2 legged PB (b37-44) in a channel can be traded with trend as an A2 and a break of the channel (b39, b63) and a test of the extreme is a precondition to fade the channel. In case of channels, its counterproductive to count pushes and fade a perceived wedge (b31) simply because the entire channel acts as one push and a two or three tick push beyond the prior swing point is hardly a new push or extreme behavior.
209

WEDNESDAY, MAY 25, 2011
Wedge pullback
A low momentum, low volume, three push pullback mid-day (b34,40,48) is a wedge pullback and usually works like an A2. There are several positives for this trade. It acts similar to a BW fBO, an A2 and a W reversal all in one. The probability of success of this trade increases if there is a sharp trend bar and no followthrough. A small inside trend bar or any small trend reversal bar increases the chances of a continuation. A Gap bar or a G2 entry increases the chances that the price will take out the extreme. WP should be usually taken as a swing entry especially if the AM trend was strong.
210

THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011
Dont fade a trend till after a trendline break
Repeatedly trying to fade a strong trend is the surest way to empty your trading account. If there is only one thing you ever take from this blog, let it be this: "Counter-trend trades are low probability until there is a trendline break." Today was a very illustrative day and we saw almost every reason to fade the trend fail. Many traders will short a strong bar such as b40 assuming an overshoot and climax but when such a bar occurs right after the break of the prior HOD or LOD, its usually re-affirming the trend. Climax bars in general are fine to exit but they are unreliable fade entries. Often you will have another climax bar or two right after and even then, you may see sideways consolidation. Minor overshoots (b46,48) and tails(b25,33) usually set up with-trend entries in a strong trend and you should never fade them. A trap bar (b52) is an outside bar and trading range and is likely to fail from within barbwire. A better trap bar is b5, which did not traverse too far up before stopping out the 1PB traders. The short below the small bar b67 near the high of the FF but even this is not a high probability setup until there is a trendline break. Once the move from b67-69 broke the trend line, counter-trend trades are acceptable and any reversal setup such as W or DT become tradable. The right thing to do if your trend fade entry is stopped out is to right away draw a trend line and if it wasn't broken, enter with trend on every minor touch or attempted touch until you do see a trendline break.
211

FRIDAY, MAY 27, 2011
1PB as a reversible trade
Some traders reverse their position if they are stopped out. This is usually a bad idea. Most of the time, traders are right about the direction, but wrong about the entry. Its usually better to take second entries for most trades and sit out on failures. Some setups however, are inherently likely to make a large move on failure. In my experience, these are 1PB, A2 and W1P. A failed 1PB (long above b5) simply turns into a 1PB in the opposite direction (1PB below b6). This is especially true if the bar that began the pullback (b4) has a body in the new direction. A failed A2 long (above b36) becomes an A2 short (short below b39). These need a little bit of experience to trade correctly. Usually, what looks like an A2 is actually a pullback in the new direction after a possible reversal (b23). A failed W1P (b57, if W25,32,52) is also an A2 short (below b62) on failure. These are easy to spot since a real W needs to have a strong overshoot and a clear reversal bar pattern. The W1P should also be made of strong bars, since weak bars are show lack of conviction for the reversal. Other setups such as BT, G2, 1CBO, etc are not inherently reversible and if you were wrong, its best to wait for more price action before taking the next trade.
212

TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2011
Channel on reversal
In a previous post I have described how channel on open leads to a second leg later. This is also true for a channel move for the first leg of any new trend, including a reversal.
Channels are typically strong trends on a higher timeframe and therefore a sideways consolidations are shallow pullbacks that typically continue for one more leg as shown in the 30m Globex chart to the left. b32 on this chart corresponds to the first 30 minutes after open and is a large shaved breakout bar. Typically (but not always) a sideways consolidation takes out the high of at least one bar, which on a 5m timescale corresponds to taking out a swing high thats six bars away. Therefore the correct way to trade a sideways consolidation is to wait for at least one swing point to be taken out and then take a trade in the direction of the original channel. The second leg typically only needs to take out the extreme of the first leg but unless first leg is weak, there will be at least two more legs in the direction of the channel, giving a W entry. Similarly, the channel after reversal is represented by b39 and b40 on the 30m chart to the left and the sideways pullback took out the low of b41 on 30m chart. So the correct way to enter this is to enter after it takes out the low of b56 on the 5m chart. Once you understand how this works, you can trade the sideways consolidation following a channel without referring to higher timeframe charts. Just wait for at least one swing point to be taken out and take the next entry in the direction of the original channel. Note that sometimes it may not take out a swing point and instead give an ii on the higher timeframe chart. This will work the same way, but is harder to read directly on the 5m chart. However, these are lower probability setups and while they do work, they often give other signals on the 5m chart.
213

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 1, 2011
Holding swings
When the market has only one bull bar in the first couple of hours and not a single close above the ema, its an indication of a very strong trend. Extremely strong trends produce multiple A2 entries but it gets harder and harder psychologically to sell after a strong move down. Holding an early entry is easy, especially when there are no bars against your position. Once you have a possible trend break (b18-25), there's always a chance of imminent reversal so it gets harder to leave a huge open profit which could evaporate in the event of a sudden rally. Some days such as today, strong trends run till the end of the day and on other days like yesterday, they can reverse completely, so a simple strategy is to move the stop just behind every new swing point. A psychologically seasoned trader however can hold a swing position in a strong trend until one of the following occurs:
ñ Strong TCL overshoot of 4t or more ñ 2nd TCL overshoot of 2t or more. ñ Trendline break and successful test of extreme (i.e., price does not break much
below extreme) ñ failed A2 (A2 triggers, approaches extreme, reverses and takes out signal bar) ñ One legged close beyond ema ñ Breakout bar taking out the ema by many ticks and one or more prior swing points ñ TTR (bars suddenly become tiny and swings are only a few ticks from prior swings) ñ Double top or double bottom followed by TL break. ñ Major Measured moves met. Of the above, measured moves are only reliable in very strong trends. Thin area measured moves and fH1 measured moves are the most reliable. Double bottoms require being in a trading range since within trends they are simply pullbacks.
214

THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011
Failed A2
While an A2 in a trend is a reliable trade, they do fail and an A2 in a trading range is not really as high probability as an A2 in a strong trend. An A2 is failed when it triggers, moves a few ticks towards the prior extreme and retraces taking out the stops beyond the signal bar. When the first A2 after a breakout fails (b35), it is a strong signal of a failed breakout, no matter how strong the breakout may have looked a few bars ago. This is because in the absence of a trend, continuation trades are not really viable and you should look to fade breakouts. Failed A2s in trends sometimes become WP if they are far away from the ema. A clear 2 legged move to ema (b28-35) should not need a third push and its generally safe to reverse above the signal bar. A fL2 (b36 and b38 ticked below prior bars) actually make this a bullish A2 and its an acceptable swing entry. During the lunch session swing moves are rare, so its ok to scalp part of such trades.
215

FRIDAY, JUNE 3, 2011
Major Reversal: Trendline break and test
A trendline break followed by a test of the extreme is a major trend reversal and its very useful to be able to recognize it in real time. This allows you to exit your positions precisely and perhaps ride the reversal as well. There are a few things to look for in a major reversal. The first is that the trendline break needs to be a strong break. This means the break is for several bars and several points. In general you want half the move on each side of the trendline. A slight break such as the dip of b11 below the trendline from b1 to b6 may not necessarily break the trend. The second thing to look for is a failure to move much beyond the extreme before the trend break (b16 high). When you see a strong push at this point, its a great place to exit on strength. If the price is able to move many bars and many points beyond it, the trend should be expected to continue until another trendline break. The last item to look for is a reversal signal just beyond the prior extreme. Today we got a 2 bar reversal at b40,41. A reversal bar or a weak bar followed by a small inside trend bar are also perfectly acceptable. If there is no reversal signal, its best to wait for a second entry or let the reversal proceed and enter on the first pullback. Often the first pullback after a reversal is very shallow (b46), but will run for many points. This is usually a swingable trade to at least the swing point of the trendline break (b27 low).
216

MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2011
1Rev and 1PB considerations
The first reversal and the first pullback generally give large moves in the AM and its necessary to correctly identify them. Often the price action regarding them are not very clear and today's action showed some of the things to watch out for. b6 was a poor signal for a first reversal since it was a 1t doji bar with almost complete overlap. b7 was a poor 1PB since it forced an entry beyond the extreme of the day. In this special case, it was a 1tf, which is usually an OK entry in a hard trend. b11 was an outside bar and is to be expected to act as a trading range. Although I did buy this due to the strength of the bar, its a poor entry and a 2L PB or a second entry would be a better choice. Technically, b13 is a 1PB short, but due to the small bar size and the fact that its following a possible reversal, its OK to skip it. 1PBs that are far away from the open need to be deep pullbacks or 2 legged unless market is in a hard trend. Given all the above, b13 is a riskier trade and its best to wait for more price action. b16 is a first attempt to end the pullback after 4 bear bars and is a poor entry. Although the 2L PB at b18 was a poor bar, it could be entered because it was a second entry at the same price.
217

TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 2011
Late swingers
Correctly trading hard trends is ... hard. This is because hard trends are comparatively rare, and when they are running, traders fail to recognize them until its too late. Once they recognize a hard trend, they spend their time looking for pullbacks that never occur. Hard trends do give entries and today's late trend illustrates some of them. Trend breaks late in the day (90 minutes before market close) are often hard trends and its a good idea to swing some into the close. This is especially important for reversals and large gap fills. After your entry (b60) and scalp exit (b61) wait for at least one attempt to fail the trade (b64). Once this bar closes, you should move your stop above this bar. Every time the price makes a new low, you should move the stop beyond the last counter-trend swing (b67,b70). If you exited early or did not enter, there are some places for a late entry or add-on. Sometimes you may be able to detect the trend early and add on below the fH2 (b67) or once you recognize the hard trend due to multiple 1tfs (b67, b70) and lack of any trend bar of the opposing color, you can short below any small bar (b73) or any small counter-trend bar (b74) and move the stop above it. Large with trend bars such as b75 are often followed by strong counter-trend action but they almost always collapse before the bar closes in a hard trend. When there is a large open profit and your swing stop is 4 points or so beyond as would happen near b76, it can be very hard to hold through but rest assured, a hard trend that originates late in the day rarely has a sudden reversal. Often the first large bar with a tail (b77) has at least one bar following it, so many traders simply exit on the close of the next big bar (b78).
218

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 8, 2011
A simple Trading Range day trading plan
About 80% of the days are trading range days and its important to be able to trade them profitably. The first order of business is to identify a trading range day. My criteria is this: Wait for two up and two down pushes (b13 today). After this, if the price is very close to the open, there is a very good chance its a trading range day. Strong up and down bars early in the day (b2, b4) increase the chances of larger scalps (+2 to +4) between the moves. Naturally, trading range days can indeed break into trends but in most cases they will simply make two or three legged moves to the day's extremes. Once a trading range day is identified, simply fade any two or three legged move to any extreme of the day. If the move is very channel like, you may choose to skip it since it may act as one leg. If a two legged move only reaches mid-range, it could give another push up to form a wedge so you could skip that one and take the wedge or enter on a second attempt (b66). Occasionally, a strong signal such as a DT (b44) may develop that can result in a hard trend. If you suspect a hard trend may be developing ( shaved trend bars, no strong CT bars, no tick above prior bars), you can also enter on any small trend bar (b53) since a sharp trend could bring large profits.
219

THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2011
Reversal bars in a strong trend
On days with extremely strong trends, reversal bars look great (b17,b33) but usually give no more than a scalp profit. With trend entries on the other hand look poor (b2, b12, b24, b38, b50) but tend to give reasonable profit. When the with-trend entries suddenly look great (b62) and the reversal signal looks poor(b67) I am usually suspicious of a reversal. This is a great place to exit and depending on the price action, reverse your positions.
220

FRIDAY, JUNE 10, 2011
Failed H1/L1 in a strong trend
When the day opens with a very strong trend (large gap, strong closes on first 2 bars), there is a good chance that the first attempt to reverse this trend will not only fail, but fail spectacularly. In addition to a very strong trend, the reversal signal for the first reversal and its entry bar need to be poor (b3,4). A 1tf (b4) sets up an excellent fH1 and you should short below it regardless of how the bar looks. An fH1 usually goes to a measured move from the beginning of the trend to the failed entry bar (b1 hi to b4 low) and usually reaches the measured move quickly (b8). At the measured move there could be a reversal or further move down, so its best to exit and re-enter on the next signal.
221

MONDAY, JUNE 13, 2011
Failed Wedges
True failed Wedges are rare. Normally wedges that fail do so because they do not represent extreme behavior. Today, we had a W5,10,20 that did overshoot the trend channel line strongly and was expected to give two legs up. But after only a single leg to b24, it took out the low of the wedge (b29) thus giving a failed Wedge. Failed W are expected to go to a measured move of the wedge as we did at b44. If the move to b24 was 2 legged, its no longer a failed wedge, but still a sell signal since a shallow 2 legged move after a wedge is a continuation signal. It just wouldn't be a measured move to the size of the wedge. One of the reasons to enter after a pullback after the wedge reversal (W1P) rather than the W itself is to avoid a misread W or a failed W such as today. Its a good idea to enter a small position on a strong W if there is a strong signal bar such as b44. This is because there is a chance that the W could not pullback until much later (often above the ema).
222

TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011
Large gaps
Large gaps -- gaps that are the size of an average day, currently about 10 points in ES -- are likely to move away from the gap rather than close it. This usually implies a trend day. A large gap day that tries to close the gap usually ends up moving far beyond the close of the previous day but a gap that tries to extend its self may find resistance and the early price action gives some clues. A strong move up early on strong trend bars usually means possibly a large day and a early move of overlapping bars with tails may mean limited movement after the early move. A shallow trendline break (b15-25) may mean a trend termination without a reversal. Often on strong days such as this a strong AM trend and a shallow trendline break is followed by a channel type move. This is because on a higher timeframe this actually is a spike and channel. The channel should never be shorted until it has its own trendline break (b50-55) followed by a test of the extreme. In general, large up gaps followed by a trend made up of average or small bars is fairly easy to trade if you take only with trend entries near the ema. A rough rule of thumb is to only trade with-trend near the ema until there is a successful close below the ema (b57) and then exit on the next push up (b67). Buying second attempts above bull bars only will usually protect you from being stopped out.
223

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 15, 2011
Large reversal bars are trading ranges
Large reversal bars(b36), especially after a strong bear move(b23-35) are often trading ranges. A strong overshoot with a very large reversal bar (anything over 3 points) will terminate the trend and turn into a trading range. The price action following such a bar is sometimes a breakout pullback into a trend on either side but usually failed breakouts of both sides of the bar and horizontal movement until a new trend breaks out. The correct way to trade this bar is to take second failed breakouts (b41, b69) of any side and hold until a test of the other side. The size of the trading range may gradually increase with every failed breakout. Its usually best to skip the failed breakout trade until the range size is 4 points or more. The larger the bar, the more confidence you can have that not too many will buy above it simply because the stop would be too large.
224

THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011
Major reversal: Double TL break
A trendline break (b19) followed by a test of the extreme (b23), followed by an additional trendline break (b30), followed by a 2L failure to reach the extreme (b37) is a double trendline break and a major reversal. You should always take these since they lead to strong trends. While a trendline break and a 2L move to a new extreme (b25) is a signal in itself, the poor signal bar should keep you out. A second entry is acceptable even with a marginal signal but a 2L LH is a much better signal. A 1L LH (b32) should rarely be taken (for example when there is a strong overshoot). In all other cases, a 2L LH is an ideal entry point.
225

SATURDAY, JUNE 18, 2011
Triangle Breakouts
Breakouts are the hardest pattern to predict correctly and the one pattern that fails the most often. There are broadly three kinds of breakouts:
ñ Triangle ñ Expanding triangle ñ Trading Range breakout Essentially, all breakouts are breaking out of trading ranges and a triangle breakout represents a narrowing trading range while an expanding triangle represents a widening trading range. A flat trading range breakout can be anticipated by its failure to breakout the other side or could be entered on a breakout pullback. This approach is unsuitable for triangles. However, for a narrowing triangle, there is a simple guideline. It normally breaks (b34) in the direction of the previous trend (AM bear move b1-12). Sometimes the triangle will break and reverse right away, but if the breakout bar has a strong close and the stop beyond it (b34 hi) is not taken out, its usually a successful breakout and should run for at least 2 legs.
226

MONDAY, JUNE 20, 2011
Anticipating trend from the 1st bar
A large gap can help you anticipate a trend day but more important in predicting a trend is a reversal of an extreme of the day. Today's b1 reversed b70 lod from previous day and the latter part of the prior day demonstrated sufficient strength for us to expect at least a test of the high of yesterday. A second attempt to reverse the extreme of the day if the first attempt fails is also a very good indicator of a possible early trend if it happens within the first hour. An entry here is swingable for many points at least above one or two swing points from the prior day. Conservative traders can enter the 1PB above b11 after two failed attempts to sell off at the ema.
227

TUESDAY, JUNE 21, 2011
G2 after a deep pullback in a strong trend
The first deep pullback of a strong trend is usually worth entering for another leg. When a trend is strong and has moved many points (b4-26), the first deep pullback (b28-50) is likely to be very deep and often moves below the ema. The second attempt to fill the gap (b52 after failed b49) usually succeeds and is a high probability trade that is likely to reach a new extreme (b62). It is important to note that the first deep pullback may have broken the trend and reaching the new extreme may simply act like a trend termination and possible reversal. G2 is also something you should only take when the potential profit is 4pts or larger. If the pullback is not sufficiently deep, it may have another leg to go before the original trend resumes. Additional reasons to take the trade will strengthen the trade. For example, today's b51 was a low momentum 3 push pullback and therefore a wedge pullback. b51 was also the first bull signal bar that actually triggered (b34 and b40 were entry bars). G2 is a lower probability on days with weaker trends and on second deep pullbacks and you should look for additional reasons to take the trade.
228

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 22, 2011
Reversal of the extreme of the prior day as a trend generator
Days that open near the middle of the prior day's range are likely to be trading range days. If they test one of the extremes and reverse it, i.e., give a failed breakout of the High or Low of the previous day, its a potential trend generator. Reversing the close of the prior day can sometimes result in a small move as today's open did, particularly as a continuation move of the overall trend of the prior day. However, the reversal of an extreme of the day, especially the second failed breakout is likely to attempt to take out the other extreme of the prior day. When you see two failed breakouts of an extreme, its a very good swing trade for many points and you should always swing some contracts.
229

THURSDAY, JUNE 23, 2011
Trend acceleration
A trendline break (b7-9) followed by a successful test of the extreme (b17) is a major reversal. But when a trendline breaks (b32-36) but the test of the high fails (b41-44), the trend is likely to accelerate, giving larger swings. This is why its always a good idea to enter in the direction of the trend when the trend line first breaks. If the trend accelerates, it forms a new trend supported by a new trend line (b17,37). Strength early in the day (b6-8) often gives an indication of strong moves later and without this, you may wish to pass up buying the trend break except under excellent setups.
230

FRIDAY, JUNE 24, 2011
A2 variants
A strong tend day shows multiple A2s and today we got a great sampler of A2 variants. The first and not very obvious is the fH2 at b7. This will act like an A2 and give at least 2 legs down. While today's formation is clear, on a soft trend day, it could manifest as 2 pokes beyond prior bars in a slightly sloping market. The second is the classic A2, which is a 2 legged move(b21-28) in the direction counter to the main trend (b1-b21) . Normally, its a good practice to count legs counter-trend only, i.e., reset your count on every new trend push. If not, you would be shorting b23 instead of b28. However on two variants, you do not have to reset your count. These are 5tf moves. The entry above b36 was a 5tf, this would allow b38 to be an A2, counting b35 as an L1, regardless of the fact that it was the same low as b33. Another variant is b64 acts as an A2 in spite of b62 having the same low as b57 since the entry below b64 was a second entry at the same price as b60. Even better is b74, which is an A2 since the short below b70 was a 5tf. Note that you should heed other confirming signs of A2 such as the move being in a trend, closeness to the ema (not too far above or below), decent trend bar PA (not too many dojis or overlaps) and good bar size (bars that are too small or too large must be ignored).
231

MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2011
Final Flags
In a strong trend, a flag should move counter to the main trend, as in b13-23. As long as the flags move counter to the main trend, there is always the chance that the price will break back in the direction of the original trend. Even with a strong trend break, the expectation is that the previous extreme will nearly always be tested. After a prolonged move, that is to say after many points and many bars and usually 2 or more pullbacks (although buy climaxes can have few or no pullbacks), a flag may move horizontal (b58-60) and then break(b61) in the direction of the original trend. Often this break will fail to give a scalp profit (b64 hi was 5tf above b60) and then turn down. A FF can often turn into a W by giving two more pushes (b63, b64) and then turn down. Final flags that occur with TCL OS (b55,56) are often signs of trend reversal when they are preceded by a TL break (b46-49). A very large bar(b55) may precede the final flag and is usually the sign of a climax buying (or capitulation in a bear)
232

TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011
Choosing trades to swing
On trend days, swinging is far more profitable than scalping. However, you can't just swing every trade. For most entries, there is a very good chance that your swing stop at the entry price will be hit. I use a simple heuristic to pick swing entries. If the pullback is 2 legged AND deep, I will add a swing portion to my size. Today these would be the A2 long above b27 and the A2 above b74. Once the price moved 6t above these bars and the scalp was filled on these trades, the stop could be moved to breakeven Long entries above b41 and b52 were 2 legged but not deep enough to warrant a swing entry. These are scalps only and higher risk. Its perfectly acceptable to pass these up and stick only to the deep pullbacks. In addition to the A2 trades, the 1PB trade above b6 is always a swing trade and is usually the best swing trade of the day.
233

THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2011
Chop: Barb wire
The most dangerous kind of price action is Barb wire. Barb wire is any three overlapping bars where at least one of them is a doji. This definition pretty much makes most of b20-b60 BW. Many traders lose their AM points trying to trade the lunchtime BW. The correct way to trade BW is to not trade it. There were four failed trades in the region from b55 to b67. The first was a possible A2 short below b57. The second was a possible A2 long and failed A2 short above b61. b65 was a possible 2L pb after a breakout above a swing point. b66 was a possible second leg down from b62. While they all would normally be OK trades, being in barb wire disqualifies them. Any setup can fail if its in barb wire, so you shouldn't get excited no matter what happens. The only time to enter a trade is when the BW stops being barby. At b70, we no longer had dojis and we had 3 pushes down to a failed breakout so its a possible failed breakout long. If b68 was a doji, then this would also have been a poor entry.
234

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 29, 2011
Two legged pullback to ema on open
When the prior day had a strong trend move and the next day opens with a gap in the direction of yesterdays overall trend, any two legged move to the ema should be taken as a continuation signal. This is usually a good indication that at least the AM move will trend in the direction of yesterdays trend. This signal is greatly enhanced if the last push of the previous day was in the direction of the trend and consisted of many average sized bars, especially a single leg move. If the pullback on open breaks below the close of yesterday and reverses (b7-9), this indicates a very strong signal. If you miss the actual reversal due to a bad signal bad (b8), you can always take the first minor pullback (b12) or the BP after a break above b1.
235

TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2011
2 legged pullbacks in a trading range
On a trading range day, there are no A2 setups, but a 2 legged pullback after a possible test and reversal near the extreme of the range can often work like one. For example, After a possible breakout and reversal on b20, there were two failed attempts to sell at b24 and b27. When they failed, it is equivalent to a 2 legged pullback and the price should be expected to continue in the new direction. The pullback after b62 DB and possible reversal was a bit more clear since b63 was an L1 and b66 was an L2. Similarly b5,7 were two failed attempts to sell and so were b77 and b79. When the Trading Range is large enough, an attempt to fade the breakout becomes attractive. A good rule of thumb is to take fBO trades when the trading range is at least 4 points wide.
236

WEDNESDAY, JULY 6, 2011
Whipsaw
When the market swings up and down on every bar stopping out every trade, its in whipsaw mode. Whipsaw can be triggered or aggravated by news as was the case today. Normally whipsaw represents strong conflict but is definitely a trading range (b1-b7). The most likely outcome is a breakout and reversal (b10,11) leading to a trend (b11-b43). The market is possibly in whipsaw if two long and two short orders have been stopped out (b1 long stopped below b2, b2 short stopped above b3, b3 long stopped below b4, b5 short stopped above b6). At this point, the best course is to stop trading and wait for a breakout and its reversal. Whipsaws rarely breakout and continue in the direction of the breakout (but it does happen occasionally) A safer entry is the first pullback after a reversal (b16) or if the breakout is towards the ema, a fade of a two legged move to the ema. Whipsaws early in the morning can have aftershocks in the PM (b68-b74), so caution must be exercised once the trend breaks (b43-48) and forms a trading range.
237

THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011
Trade only with trend when bars are tiny
A large gap works like a spike and usually is a spike in pre-market trading. If the open does not produce significant selling, there is a very good chance the price will channel up. A sharp two legged move to the ema may produce a strong trend but a low momentum move with tiny bars may act like a WP and produce a channel type move When most bars are small and have one and have one or two tick bodies, the trend is very likely continue in the direction if the gap for the rest of the day. If channel is narrow, every short signal gives an entry mid-range, something that's very likely to fail. The best way to trade a channel is to buy any bull bar after a failed L2 near the ema or trendline. Usually when the L2 is off an inside bar near the ema, you can often buy the low of the inside bar on limit with a tight stop.
238

FRIDAY, JULY 8, 2011
A 2 legged pullback after breakout is a good indication of a reversal
A trend break followed by a test of the prior extreme is a major reversal. Sometimes the break is so strong that the test is very shallow. For example, b26 broke a trend line and stopped short at the ema and went into barb wire. Often one bar breakouts fail and sell off rapidly but when it gave a 2 legged pullback (b28 and b32 found sellers) and the buyers were able to take out the prior swing high (b40 took out b28 high), a new trend was in effect (2 Higher highs and two higher lows). So the next 2 legged pullback at b46 found lots of buyers and so did every pullback into the close.
239

MONDAY, JULY 11, 2011
Trends dont turn around easily
With-trend traders are always at an advantage and the reason is that trends don't turn around easily. Especially strong trends that have a strong first leg. Today there was a channel like move from b6 onwards until an obvious trendline break (b19-b29). The channel like move very likely means there would be a second leg down, which would take out b19 low. This was met at b46. However, buyers of b46 or b47 were disappointed when the trend did not just reverse to bullish. They may have tried again at b61 (3 pushes down) ad then again at b65, b68 and b72. All those attempts failed because trends don't reverse very easily. Most faders are in too early and pay for it. The large gap and the channel like first leg is an indication of strength and without a strong overshoot, the likelihood of reversal is low. In general, a 1 legged move to and close beyond the ema (b72) is a good sign that the trend may have ended or at least the counter-trend trades are likely to be profitable beyond the one and two point scalps. Until then, every entry is speculative and if you do enter, exit unless the entry takes you beyond the ema without pullbacks.
240

TUESDAY, JULY 12, 2011
A Wedge reversal of a weak trend may generate a strong trend
Often trading range days are weak trends with deep pullbacks. The price continues to make higher highs (b11,b28, b59) and higher lows (b17, b22, b49) etc. When such a trend has a Wedge reversal (W11,28,59), there is a good chance it will reverse the entire wedge. A strong breakout (b55-58) from an essentially horizontal movement on failure will produce a large move down. The reason for this is simple: The horizontal movement acts like BW and the breakout like a BW fBO. The most important reason however, is that every new breakout on a trading range day that did not open with a large gap is far more likely to fail than to succeed.
241

WEDNESDAY, JULY 13, 2011
TCL failure
A channel is normally a flag and after 3 pushes or so will resume the prior move to at least test the original trend extreme. Any movement of the price outside the channel tends to push the price action to the other extreme of the channel (b29 to b34, b40 to b46). The more extreme the violation, the sharper the bounce. Very deep excursions can result in a very sharp snapback especially if the price action early in the day (b7-13) showed strength in the same direction. However, if this snapback fails to rush to the other extreme of the channel and instead gives a 2 legged move (b60-67), then we have a TCL failure and the result is often a measured move of the extent of the channel (met at b75). This acts like a fH1 and usually is one on a higher timeframe. The correct trade is to take both the expected snapback and reverse on its failure since both are likely to move around the same number of points (b16 hi to b24 hi is the same as b66 low to b75 low)
242

THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2011
Trendline breaks end the trend but do not imply reversal
When the trend accelerates (b40-b46) after a sufficiently large move (b13-34), the resulting deep trend channel line violation (b46,47) will usually give a strong snapback move. The deeper the incursion, the stronger the snapback (b47-49). When counter-trend traders are able to make a very strong move such as the snapback above, the result is a trend line break. Often, the break is obvious without the need for an actual trendline. This show of strength is usually sufficient to pause the trend for a while, however it may not reverse the entire trend right away. This is because at the point of the trendline break (b49 high), sellers will want to sell at a better price and the buyers who missed out will want to buy at a better price. The result is a test of the trend extreme (b47 low) or at least a test of the entry bar (b48 low). A second strong buying at this point will often but not always cause the trend to reverse. This implies that most entries should exit when the snapback pauses and swing entries should wait for the test of the prior extreme.
243

FRIDAY, JULY 15, 2011
BW midrange
A mid-range barb wire (BW) pattern is a very common occurrence on Trading Range days. Most traders get chopped up trying to trade these such as the ones between b22-29 and b4153 today. Facts you need to know about barb wire:
1. They almost always break away from the ema rather than thru the ema. 2. A strong breakout bar from BW(b31,54), no matter how strong it may appear, is likely
to fail and turn around to go through the BW. This is especially true on trading range days since you expect moves to ends of the range to reverse. 3. 2 failed attempts to break through the ema(b25,27) can be traded as if it were a minor A2 if additional indications are seen (TL touch, 5tf, shaved signal bar b28). This should be done with care since taking the fBO is always the better trade and you dont want to miss it by being on the wrong side. 4. A BW fBO late in the day is likely to give a much stronger move than one mid-day. Note that hard H1/L1 entries in a hard trend (b74,b78) do not constitute BW. This is because trending dojis are a trend and BW needs to be somewhat horizontal.
244

MONDAY, JULY 18, 2011
Trendline breaks
Trendline breaks, especially of trends longer than 20 bars or so should be carefully evaluated for continuation, reversal or trading range action. A strong trendline break will go many points and many bars beyond the trendline, often closing above the ema in one leg. If this break occurs after a strong overshoot and reversal bar, its a very strong trendline break and reversal is likely. Any 2 legged pullback or any reasonable 1 legged pullback such as 1chbo should be taken. A weak trendline break that occurs after a very large trend bar or a taily bar is likely to turn into a trading range. This is especially true if the terrible signal bar is followed by a 2 legged pullback to the ema that comes close to the extreme of the trend and fails to take it out or takes it out only by a few ticks and then reverses. In between the two is a moderate break that gives a channel either in the same direction or the opposite direction of the original trend such as the one today. The break came off a 2 legged move (b30-34), after a doji bar and no real overshoot. However, the A2 that followed (b38) did not go far and started to move in a channel. Once you assess its a channel, you should trade it like a weak trend, buying 2 legged pullbacks to the trendline and ema and scalping most entries by exiting at the trend channel line.
245

TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2011
Limit entries
After experimenting with limit entries, I have narrowed down a few prospective entries that work somewhat consistently and when they do work, they give a slightly better entry than a preceding or subsequent stop entry. While the key to trading is to take the best setups, limit trading on small bar days can improve your win per trade by 4t or more. On large bar days this approach may not be very fruitful, simply because the momentum of every move can easily trigger tight stops. In general, I dont look for limit entries except when there is overlap since overlapped entries tend to give deep pullbacks. Limit entries are primarily a means to enter late, often at a better price. 1st Channel breakouts: When the momentum is strong and no bar has dipped below the low of the prior bar, the first bear trend bar close (b4) can be bought on limit with a stop below a recent trend bar (b2). If the stop is too far away, do not take the trade. Entry bar tests: When an inside signal bar (b13, mDP) triggers, the entry bar's high will often be taken out by 1t (b14, b39). This provides a very tight entry at the high of the entry bar. The stop can be as tight as 3t, but if a trend bar is nearby, you could place the stop beyond it (b12 high, b38 high). Breakout tests: When the highest low of the day or the lowest high of the day are approached for the first time, there is a good chance it will fail from 0-2t away. A BT entry can be placed 3t away from the breakout point with a stop 4t above. For example, b37 high would have been a breakout test of b11 low if it was the first approach. In general, BT is for breakouts and should not be expected to work unless a trend move did break from that point. Double bottoms: A double bottom off strong bar can be expected to bounce at least as much as the size of the bar. For example, b45 low made a double bottom with b33 and is a possible limit entry. The stop would be below a recent trend bar (not-existent in this chart, so its not a real entry). The trick to taking double bottoms is to always take them on the 2nd or 3d push. For example, although b37 low did give 4t, you really want to buy on the second leg down at b45.
246

WEDNESDAY, JULY 20, 2011
Micro-channels
Extended micro-channels usually imply reversal and are often seen on both trend days and trading range days. After an extended trend move, a with-trend micro-channel represents a trendline break and and a higher high or lower low test and often will signal a reversal. On trading range days, they represent a weak move to one end of the range, which usually breaks down and can break into a trend in either direction. A micro-channel beyond 20 bars loses any predictive value. Micro-channels are traded like any other channel. A break and a 2 legged pullback is a with trend (in the direction of the MC) and a break and a 2L test represents a reversal.
247

THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2011
Double bottom pullbacks
An important continuation signal on a bull trend day is the double bottom flag (double top in bear trends). These are especially strong when they occur at supports. For example, today we had two double bottom bull flags. The first at b29,35 was at the BT of the 1PB entry above b6 and the next at b59,69 was at a trendline. A DB after a deep pullback has a lot of significance, since it implies traders are buying again or adding on close to their entry price. A DB followed by a small pullback that doesn't quite touch the bottom turns into a DP. An inside bar such as b36 or a miss by a tick or two such as b74 constitute a DP. DPs are a kind of failed breakout and are expected to go to the other end of the range (b12 high for b35 and b40 high for b75) and should be taken if the range is large.
248

FRIDAY, JULY 22, 2011
TTRs break the trend
Any horizontal movement extended long enough will break a trend, including one bar trends and gaps. Its best to exit any positions near the top of the TTR and look for new entries after the next trend break. A minor horizontal movement such b19-24 is simply a two legged pullback (b20 and b24 were two pullbacks) and should not be considered an extended TTR. On the other hand, when two up and down attempts failed (b46,47,49,50) There is good chance this is a horizontal flag and TTR. Stop runs in a TTR (b54,55 and b56) should are not reversals and should not be taken. A breakout out of the TTR, especially a 2 or 3 legged BO can be faded (b69-75)
249

MONDAY, JULY 25, 2011
Trading barb wire
While its normally excellent practice to avoid barb wire, experienced traders can and do trade it profitably. On the occasions I do enter on barb wire, its often because I have missed an earlier entry in a trend and the barbwire is another opportunity for me to enter with the trend. I usually avoid barb wire mid-range.
For example, today's BW between b24-28 had a trend breakout to the ema and it bounced off and gave an fBO entry that is also a fL2 entry (b27L1, b29L2) for anyone who missed buying above b22. This sort of BP usually produces very short BW lasting 4 to 6 bars. A similar BP occurred at b66. AStrong breakout at b62 was followed by two feeble attempts to reverse the breakout (b63 is a feeble attempt to create a reversal bar). b73 was a similar is a barbwire A2 in a trend that should be read as a fH2 and therefore two failed attempts to reverse the trend. (If you expect the bar to trigger, its quite ok to short the close on limit as was done here) The last but somewhat rare scenario is that BW can be shorted when it repeatedly fails to run stops as in b45-60. How many attempts equate to repeated? That's yet unknown, but two failed attempts to break out up after at least one successful attempt to break down should suffice.
250

TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2011
Wedge pullback
A mid-day low momentum three push pullback is a wedge pullback (WP) and usually is a good entry. On a trend day, this move will usually end close to the ema. On a trading range day such as today, it will usually give a three push fBO of the previous swing low (b52 broke below b27). Often this may be a G or G2 trade as well and is usually a high probability trade given previous trend in the same direction. Often the WP makes part of a complex mid-day pullback.
251

THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2011
Channel after a trendline break
A channel after a trendline break (b35-48 after b32-34) is often the first leg of a new trend. If it gives a 2 legged pullback (b49-53), it should be taken for a possible second leg, which often is a much stronger move (b55-62). Regardless of the direction of the original trend, the new channel is more likely to be the determining direction of at least one more leg. If the two legged pullback is very strong, it may break the channel trend and ultimately reverse the channel. This usually rare but does happen on occasion.
252

SATURDAY, JULY 30, 2011
Inside bars
A small bar at one end of a large bar sets up a fade of the large bar, regardless of the color of either bar, but is a stronger signal when the entry is in the direction of the inside bar. For example b23 setup a fade of b22 and the price should be expected to at least take out the low of b22. Sometimes, its perfectly fine to fade a large bar off an inside bar of the same color if the entry with in the direction of the overall trend. For example, b30 setup a fade of b29. While both were bull bars, the overall trend was already down (2 lower lows and 2 lower highs). The same with b39 fade of b38. The most important criteria is that the inside bar should be less than half the size of the outside bar. For example, b9 and b45 are terrible entries simply because there is insufficient room to the low of the bar to eke out a profit. If the bars have more than a tick tail, you may wish to take second entry instead. Small bars whose body is completely inside the body of the larger bar (b21 inside b20) also count as inside bars as long as their tails are not too long. The simplest way to trade inside bars are to only take them where the inside bar is less than half the outside bar and only with trend (b30) or after a swing move or a third push up (b23).
253

MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2011
Small bars
Small trend bars are very important signals and you should pay close attention to them. In a strong trend, a small trend bar is a with trend signal. These are often visible right after a breakout bar(b6 after b5 and b62 after b61), and should be always taken since the following bar is often a large bar (b7) or is followed by a large move (b63-67). Such small bars are safe to short at LOD or buy at HOD. A small trend entry bar off a strong signal pattern indicate weakness (b10,b41) unless followed by more trend bars in which case its a sign of strength. The first counter-trend bar in a channel can be entered with trend on its close if the close is strong (b39 close), since it will be viewed merely as a pullback.
254

TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2011
Inside bar after breakout bar
After a breakout in a direction, there is usually an attempt by the traders in the opposite direction to make a stand. This could result in a reversal bar, an inside bar or a small bar depending on the strength of the traders trying to fade the breakout. A reversal bar after breakout usually implies a failure of the breakout and the failure is a decent with-trend signal by itself but is enhanced by being near a barrier such as ema (b59) or near a trendline (b36) or being a breakout test and so on. A trend bar, especially a small trend bar after a breakout (b18) represents success of the breakout and may be entered with-trend if the bar size is small enough to represent moderate risk (around 2 points for normal day). An inside bar after a breakout (b39, b51,b74,b76) represents a pullback and a possible failure and can be bracketed to trade either way. If both the breakout bar and the inside bar are bearish, its generally a good idea to take the trade only with-trend. If the inside bar after a bear bar is the bullish, it can be bracketed.
255

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 3, 2011
Trending dojis
Trending dojis (b35-41, b61-66) are mini-trends. They are small trend moves on a smaller timeframe and a large trend bar on a larger timeframe. When you see trending dojis, the right thing to do is enter with the trend on a pullback bar. Obviously, most traders did exactly that since the low of b43 and b68 were bought without hesitation for an excellent run each. If you are queasy about buying the close of a bear trend bar on limit, its perfectly fine to wait and see of the next bar is bullish and buy its close or above its high if its not too large.
256

THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2011
Day full of large bars
When bars are large, your risk is large and although in proportion to each other the bars may look reasonable, your monetary risk is larger per contract so you need to adapt by reducing size. The other thing you need to do is to only take trades where the risk of pullback is low. A2 on trend days when correctly entered, tend to have low adverse movement (b49, b69). Even though b69 was 4.25 points, its adverse movement was only 1.25 points. Other low pullback setups are W1P and G2. Its best to avoid setups with large pullback possibilities such as inside bar reversal (b29) and two bar reversals (b10,11).
257

FRIDAY, AUGUST 5, 2011
Other options on wide range days
On days when many bars are the size of a normal day, I look to other options than the five minute chart for trading. I have used 1 minute chart, 4500 tick chart and recently, 20K and 10K volume chart. The 1 minute chart has the advantage of a fixed time before the print of the next bar but often gives poor signals, especially reversal signals. Tick charts have lost some of their relevance since the exchanges changed how they reported tick data and are now similar to volume charts. Although I do not have sufficient experience with any of these, I prefer volume charts slightly over the other two because of fewer bad signals. Today's entries have been off 10K and 20K volume charts and the markers on the charts represent the canonical entries rather than actual entries. (To some extent this is true of every day). The advantage of volume charts and tick charts is that you can adjust the count to whatever gives you a bar size that you deem acceptable risk. The disadvantage is that bars can print very quickly. During b5 today, some bars on the 4500t and 20K volume chart printed in under a minute, so you have very little time to act and the pressure may force errors. The second option is to actually trade options on the underlying -- SPY in this case. Option positions do not move as quickly with the underlying as futures do and are best used for swinging positions over a few days, but on large days like today, they become very viable. I personally only trade options after the day has proven to be a large day and shows the signs of a strong reversal. If the close is strong (unlike today where it pulled back before closing) its often a good idea to carry it to the next day except on Fridays since the option loses 2 extra days of time value.
258

MONDAY, AUGUST 8, 2011
Bear rallies
Often the strongest bullish moves occur as failed breakouts in strong bears. Moves such as b12, b14-21 and b60-70 look very strong but end up as failed breakouts. b2 failed as a 1 bar bull move, b21 failed as an A2 and b71 failed as a gap bar. On a very wide range day such as this, its possible to swing a good distance even counter to the main trend. However, a swing with the main trend would have obviously fared much better. When in a strong bear always watch out for a failed breakout. You an minimize your countertrend position exposure by taking only 2 legged pullbacks. For example, b67 would be a 2 legged pullback after a possible reversal.
259

TUESDAY, AUGUST 9, 2011
Risks and rewards of extreme volatility
As expected, today was also an extremely volatile day and I was forced to trade on a 20K volume chart. So a lot of the entries were mid-bar and may not make complete sense on the 5m chart. Rather than omit the non-standard and experimental trades, I have included them all here in the hope that it will be more educational than distracting. Let me briefly discuss the non-standard trades today. The long on b1 was a possible 1Rev near ema and led to a 3 point loss. The G entry above b43 and 44 are not my standard trade but I expected a 2 legged move up to possibly a new high of the day. The G2 at b51 did not trigger on the 5m but triggered on the volume chart. The price action was so volatile that the short on b54 and b59 were simply mistakes caused by bars printing too fast. The BO at b76 was after assurance of low probability of pullback after taking out hod. Most of these trades looked reasonable on the volume chart and that's the flip side of using a chart that reduces your risk, it usually also reduces the probability of success. When the bars are printing quickly on the volume chart, its hard to look back at the 5m chart to verify before making entires. The biggest mistake was flattening my long position from b64 near the low of b67 instead of letting it take me out at b/e. This made me miss out on 40 points of the move up. Technically speaking, I could probably just ignore the fact that bars are the size of a weekly move and trade them just like any other bar with 18 point stops and have my normal success rate, but its very hard for me at this point and I'd rather take a few more small losses to get a defined smaller risk and a chance to swing for a big move.
260

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 10, 2011
Large inside day
A small inside day would normally be a poor day but given today had a 40+ point range, riding a couple of swings can be fruitful. The trick on days such as these is to recognize a failed breakout and exit and possibly reverse off it. The right move on the AM trade was to reverse long off the fBO on b20 and reverse short again off b60. The trouble with trading swings on trading range days is that a trader needs to develop flexibility regarding possible fBO. If I had correctly read b60 as a fBO signal, I would have reversed short instead of finding reasons to go long all the way down.
261

MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2011
Failed breakouts and Breakout pullbacks
On a trading range day, a failed breakout such as b26 may be traded if the signal is strong. I often pass up the setup if the move I'm fading is channel like and wait for 2 failed attempts to continue the move first (b30,32). This is because the first attempt to fade the channel will usually fail. On the other hand if the breakout gives a poor signal bar (b60) or does not trigger (b65) or otherwise fails twice to move back into the range, I will usually look for BP instead. A second option is to recognize failed L2s as a soft trend move and buy above the next signal bar (b36 or possibly b38, b53, b73). The brave can buy the close of the second attempt on limit with a stop below the next lower bull bar or a tight money stop.
262

TUESDAY, AUGUST 16, 2011
Comparison of alternate charts

Today had some violent news related price action during lunchtime and unlike normal days when the lunch hour is the tightest, today's lunch hour had 'bars gone wild'. When there is a sudden increase in trading volume in a short span of time, time based bars are unlikely to provide meaningful signal bars. A comparison of alternative charts shows how you can still get a decent signal in times of heightened activity:

1m

3m

4500 tick

20K

volume

263

Note how the 3m fails to give a tradeable signal. The 1m gives a weak ii doji which may be seen as a final flag. The 4500t is a lot better, its giving a 2 bar reversal. However the volume chart has given the best signal today with a clear shaved reversal bar. The stop at the entry price was not touched only on the volume chart, allowing a risk free swing trade. The defects of a time-frame chart can only be addressed by a non-timeframe based chart and thats a necessity when bars are large or otherwise untradeable. I haven't collected a lot of data yet, but in my very limited experience, volume charts provide the best setups in such cases.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 17, 2011
Hard turn
Normally hard trends open hard but today, the trend turned hard after reversal above the prior day's high. Unfortunately, I did not identify it on time and I missed the down move entirely waiting for A2s. The fH2 at b17 was probably the earliest clue that the trend was turning hard but at that point could have been simple BW. Being a hard trend, any shaved or 1t low could be shorted namely, b21, b29 and b39. Also any 1tf could also be shorted below, regardless of how the bar closed but b41 and b47 were possibly too large. Hard trends break but do not usually reverse (i.e., unlikely to go back to the upper part of the range) and therefore there was possibly only a weak play after the TL break at b58.
264

THURSDAY, AUGUST 18, 2011
Trading large gaps
Small gaps narrow, large gaps widen. A currently experimental trade is to trade the open betting on the large gap widening with a 6t stop. The idea being the buy at open should not scalp out profitably. Today, this entry was stopped to the tick before the price reversed but overall this is worth the risk:reward since you are often getting the best entry of the day. However, this is still an unproven trade and not advisable for large size. A1PB after a trend attempt is generally the safest trade and in the overall scheme of things, far better risk to reward ratio than entering on open. However when the signal bar is poor and news is pending, its often advisable to skip this trade. Huge bars are trading ranges and at the close of b8, its pretty obvious that b7,8 form a large trading range and you should only buy in the lower 1/3 and sell in the upper 1/3. The only viable entries for the rest of the day were the DT at b35 and the W at b76. Honorable mention: b54 was possibly a W1P if you consider b41,46,51 a W rather than a channel.
265

FRIDAY, AUGUST 19, 2011
Large Triangle Breakouts
I have previously written about trading Triangle Breakouts. In general triangles break in the direction of the most recent trend (b13-b26). The optimal entry point is usually hard to determine since the actual breakout often has no signal bar. The correct way to enter is to wait for a clear breakout outside the triangle (below b26) or at least the last two swing points (below b35) and enter on the first pullback. On this day, it would be below b55. However, when the day is one with large bars, an earlier entry may provide larger profits. One optimization is to enter in the direction of the previous trend on any signal bar that may be a failure such as below b45 (b45 was 5tf of buys above b44) or below b47 (failure of reversal bar). The only reason this is acceptable is because failures usually lead to at least two legs and if the trade does not pan out, you should be at least able to exit at breakeven.
266

MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2011
Catching the AM trend
Most new traders should not be surprised if their winning percentage is around 55 to 60% with-trend and 40 to 45% counter-trend. Essentially, they are at 50% with a 5 to 10% trend skew. This means that the more trades you take, the higher your chances of losing money and the more your broker loves you. Holding for larger swings forces you to take fewer trades and make more points per trade. This also forces you to take quality trades and focus on the bigger picture, rather than be lost in the details of the most recent bar. Most days are like the chart above. There is a trend attempt early in the AM and then a trading range. Trading the 20% of the days when the move is continually in the same direction is important, but that is easier since you do get multiple continuation entries. On a typical day like today however, its very important to get in the AM trend and ride it till it terminates or reverses. If you missed b1 today, there was no real reasonable with trend setup until possibly b25. On the other hand, the market did give three counter-trend setups at b9, b30 and b38. These are much more modest in their wins than riding down the AM trend. This is why poor 1PB setups (b13) should often be taken and poor or weak 1Rev can be taken at support (b9). If you do successfully catch the AM trend, its usually best to trade small or none for the rest of the day once the AM trend terminates and turns into a trading range. Compared to the very clear price action in the AM trend, the lunch and afternoon session are fraught with overlaps, traps and poor signal bars. Most beginners are best served by:
ñ trading the AM trend only by trading the 1Rev and 1PB and nothing else ñ adding on A2 only on trend days ñ After some consistency, add H1/L1 on hard trends and fL2 on soft trends. 1Rev and 1PB have various edge cases and are much more complex to read but they provide the best risk to reward ratio of any setup before the AM trend has run too far. Once a trend day is established, A2s are fairly safe with some experience. All other setups require experience to read correctly and should be taken only on small size at first. The trick to 1Rev and 1PB is to realize that on some days you will miss them and its fine not to trade on those days. Don't feel anxious to get into the market at any cost and enter on substandard setups.
267

TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2011
Two legged pullbacks vs A2 vs G2
There are two legged pullbacks and there are A2s. The difference is that an A2 is around the ema, including just slightly above to overlapped. A shallow 2 legged pullback such as b13 or b36 is not an A2. An A2 is preferably deep and gives an entry near the low of the pullback. This is preferable since even a test of the high would mean a bigger payoff. Shallow pullbacks such as b13 may be traded, but they should only be scalps. There is a very good chance that a shallow pullback entry's breakeven stop will be taken out except of course for soft and hard trends. On the other hand, a G2 has relevance only in a very strong trend. An attempted sell-off gives a cheap entry for everyone who missed prior entries and they will rush to buy. If the trend is not strong, G2 cannot be taken on its own.
268

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2011
Confirming signs after weak signal bar
Sometimes, an otherwise obvious entry may have a poor signal bar such as b24 A2 or b33 W. In such cases, its best to look for a second entry. In the case of b24, a second 2 bar signal at b27 confirmed the entry. Often instead of a second entry, you get two failures in the counterdirection. For b33, there were 2 short entries that turned into 1tf (short below b34 and below b38). This is a very strong confirmation of b33 long. The price taking out b39 high also makes it a fL2, which is a reasonable signal in itself. Similarly, the DP above the doji signal bar b62 was confirmed by the 1tf of the short below b64. A signal bar with a strong close should not need any confirmation.
269

THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
A failed 1Rev can be a 1PB
A 1Rev or OR needs to be at a place where a reversal would make sense. If not, it is likely to fail. Today, the opening 2 bar reversal probably was the first reversal, but if it wasn't, then b3 is an attempt to give a first reversal. The three minute chart on the left shows this much more clearly. 3m b5 attempted to reverse the opening move but since it wasn't near any place where a reversal would make sense such
as ema or the extremes of the prior day, it failed. Given that it was the first attempt to reverse three bear trend bars with strong closes, this probably was expected but what's more important was that a failure is often a 1PB (3m b6) in the direction of the original move. The risk to taking this of course is that a second attempt and the ema are very close. However, when the second attempt to reverse it at the ema (b7) did not trigger, it was a confirmation of the 1PB and traders who were quick could probably sell below b7. On hard trend days, the correct entries go far and go quick and there is really no latitude for delays. This is why new traders are better off trading off a single chart and try to focus on the best entries. Fortunately, today we did get an A2 (b24), which is comparatively rare in a hard trend. Given the bar sizes, counter-trend trading was permissible after the trendline break (b17-23). On a normal sized day, fBOs should only be taken in the direction of the hard trend, since any counter-move is likely to fail or be otherwise unprofitable.
270

FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2011
Managing risk on days with huge bars
When bars are huge, I look to other options than the 5m chart. I have discussed volume charts and tick charts previously. In the first hour I also look at 3m charts for clarity.
On the 3m chart to the left, the 1Rev is very clear compared to the 5m chart. Also clear is the FF made up of alternating bull and bear trend bars (3m b6-9). An entry above b13 with a stop below is a canonical entry and has about 7 point risk. Since you can move the stop below the entry bar after the entry bar closes, an entry above 3m b14 is a valid entry with a stop below. This reduces your risk to 4.5 points. On a day such as this, when you are looking at a potential 20 to 40 point move thats a reasonable risk. Another option is to buy the close of b14 with a stop below its close. This reduces the risk to about 2 points. This is very reasonable given the potential upside. However, its hard to do given that its a potential 1tf. Conservative traders will probably want to buy above a bull bar with a strong close. Remember, all the above are effectively buying above b13, you are just managing your risk based on subsequent bars.
271

Yet another option is to buy on the 1-minute chart. It should be noted that trading reversals on the 1-minute chart should absolutely never be done since it is possibly the fastest way to blow your account. However, two failures to continue the trend after a potential reversal (above 1m b45 after 1m b38 reversal) is a valid entry. Note that is should only be taken after the 3m and 5m charts have already shown reversals. A 1m chart on its own can never be trusted for a reversal signal. The 1m entry above b45 corresponds to buying at 1141, one point below the top of 3m b15 or 5m b9. As you can see, the 1m did not give the most optimal entry, the 3m did.
What the 1m does is allow you to pretend its a very fast moving 5m chart on a day with huge bars. Note that even on the 1m, bars were 2 to 4 points. It gives more entries and smaller risks. Fading 1m reversals in a very strong trend is also a very good play but only when the trend is super-strong such as this day. The best option for most new traders is to only read the 3m chart for the first hour and then switch to the 5m chart and not even look at 1m chart until a potential signal sets up on the higher timeframe chart. Once bars start getting smaller or overlapped (b23-b27), you should no longer look at 3m or 1m chart or you are likely to lose due to many poor setups on a lower timeframe chart. Don't forget that the 5m chart is your staple and you have much less experience with other timeframes. Your reads should consistently be off the 5m chart and use lower timeframes only for entries during extremely large bars and only in the early part of the day.
272

MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 2011
Poor 1PB setups on soft-trend days
1PB is usually the best opportunity for a swing trade on a trend day and I normally take it even if it looks poor. A great example of a poor setup was this day. b6 and b8 are not really 1PBs because at that point, we are probably in what appears to be a trading range. 1PB is a setup in a new trend and it will usually fail in a trading range. However on a large gap day and a strong b1, there is still some chance its going to trend (as it eventually ended up doing) and what could possibly be a 1PB may be worth the risk/reward. A deeper pullback to the ema at b21 or 25 is a far better entry since its at a support, 2 legged and below the trading range. The second feature of a large up gap followed by a large b1 is that there is a very good chance it will turn into a soft trend. This means any fL2 such as b38 and b43 are valid setups. However, I often will only scalp them or pass them up and wait for a deep pullback such as b54. This is because a deep pullback is more likely to allow my swing stop at my entry price unmolested while it grinds higher.
273

TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2011
Rationale of the first reversal
From the chart, its clear that today's bar is a doji on the daily chart. There were swings up and down and the price closed close to the open. Although this is a typical trading range day, it has a sort of upward primary trend. Lets call this the primary move. The first reversal trade in general attempts to get the most of the primary move. When the market attempts to make a trend move in a direction and reverses, there is a very good chance on a trading range day that it will attempt to go about twice this range (as it did today) and then move back near the open. In real time, you never know if the move from b1 to b4 will reverse and lead to the primary move down or another reversal below will take it all the way up. This is why any decent reversal signal in the first hour or so is a great setup. The larger the initial move, the larger the doji range and therefore, the larger the primary move. On trend days, the opposite is true. The initial move is small and the reversal leads to a protracted trend.
274

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2011
5tf, 9tf and 1tf
When traders take a with-trend setup, they expect to take profits at certain discrete number of points. The most popular targets are +1, +2, +4, +8, +10. Counter-trend traders know these locations and will place counter-trend entries at these locations, hoping the additional trades will cause a mini-pop that will allow them to take a profit. When the number of contracts placed by counter-trend traders far exceeds the with-trend contracts, the price will refuse to tick beyond it. For example, breakout traders below b24 sold at 1218.25 and expected to cover at 1217.25. Counter-trend traders know this price point and will place their buys at the same price. If the price refuses to tick below 1217.25, then it is a good indication that many of the buys did not get filled. That includes the bears who shorted and the bulls who wanted to buy below the low of the day. So when the bar closes strong as in b31, both bulls and bears who did not get filled will place buy orders right away. This is clear from b32 which did not tick below its open. Such a failure is called a 5 tick failure or 5tf. A similar failure can be seen on b27 since the buy above b24 also turned into a 5tf. Analogous to a 5tf is the 9tf for targets of 2 points as can be seen at b70 for the short below b65. 9tfs often occur near large bars since larger signal bars cause traders to expect larger targets. Unlike 5tf and 9tf, a 1tf is caused by traders buying the bottom of a bar in a bull move or selling the top of a bar in a bear move. For example, when the price refuses to tick below b6 on what is so far a strong day, traders will treat the overlap b5-7 as a trading range and place buy orders at the low of b7. This causes the price to pop above the bar after ticking below the prior bar giving a 1tf. 1tf is usually the result of a counter-trend trade especially the first attempt before a trendline break.
275

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2011
The most recent reversal determines direction of 1PB
Everytime there is an opening reversal (OR) after a trend move (b3-b5, b6-b7), you should expect a 1PB in the direction of the latest reversal. This is because 1PB is the first pullback in a trend and when the trend reverses, the expected direction also changes. 1PB is usually reversible. This means that if your 1PB entry immediately gives a signal counter to your entry, you entered incorrectly and should probably reverse your position. For example, if you missed the inside bar reversal at b8 and took a 1PB long at b10, you should reverse short at the 1PB short on b12. This way, your 1PB entry is usually self-correcting.
276

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2011
Extremely strong trends
Soft trends and hard trends are two types of extremely strong trends. These should never be traded counter-trend. When you see a large up gap on the open and the first bar has a 1tf giving a fade entry near the low of the bar, there is already a very good chance it will turn into a soft-trend day. When the second pullback is also a 1tf (b5), its a sign of a very strong trend. This essentially means bulls are buying the low of every short signal. A well formed two legged pullback that does not quite reach the ema at b17 is another indication of strength. Often the first deep pullback is your best bet for a day long swing on a day such as this. However, any deep pullback such as b52 or b77 could be swung. Folks who missed entering the first deep pullback can fade every L2. A soft-trend is the easiest to trade and you should take every deep 2 legged pullback even if you are conservative. Avoiding counter-trend trading is very important. The first successful counter-trend trade was off b48. You should normally skip the first one and take the second one (b64 or b67). In general never attempt counter-trend trades until you see a one-legged move to ema such as b48-51
277

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2011
Large bars could turn into spike and channel.
The bar b49 can be read in many ways. Its possibly an entry bar below b48, which was an A2 short second entry (with b45 as first). Its possibly a failed H2 with b44 as H1. In any case, its a trap bar that results in acceleration of the trend. When a disproportionately large bar pops from nowhere as is the case with news related events, there is a very good chance it will turn into a spike and channel type of move. The exception is if it was a trend bar that triggered off a 2-legged pullback and has follow through. Once the spike is determined, wait for a pullback and trade only in the direction of the channel. The channel (b58-69) will be in the same direction as the spike (b49) unless the pullback also had a large spike in the opposite direction. Channels typically but not always consist of three pushes and will give a W termination (b70) and will test the begin of the channel (b75). They will then go to the mid-range of the channel (b81). There is a good chance you missed out on the spike but the pullback and channel often go to a measured move of the spike.
278

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2011
Wedge Failed breakouts
Often when the gap on open is large, there is an expectation of a trend move. While trend from the first bar is a reasonable expectation, some gap days will only result in a trading range. However, on some days you will see a wedge attempt in one direction that will take out the low of the day and often result in a measured move of the opening range. The Wedge on open could form either with the gap or against the gap. When the wedge is with the gap as in today, it often appears as a variation of a 2-legged pullback to the ema. To identify wedge on open, look for a large first bar (signifying TR), preferably with large tails (also TR) or overlaps (b3,4 -- also TR). After the initial move, the market will move in three pushes in either direction and give an entry fading the range. When the wedge move reverses the initial move and takes out the range extreme (b1 high), its a wedge failed breakout or WfBO. WfBOs are trend generators and should always be taken as a swing setup. At the very least they give two legs, often taking out the other end of the range. If the range is taken out in one leg, they often give a measured move of the range.
279

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2011
Major reversal: Bear Trendline break and HL
Usually a major reversal of a bear trend requires a strong break of the trendline and a LL test. But sometimes, there will no LL test and you would need to enter on a HL. These cases will run in a very hard trend for only one leg so you need to be able to identify these and enter on the HL. The precondition to a strong reversal late in the day is a very strong move in the first hour (b1-b8). Without a prior show of strength, any reversal without a LL test is likely to fail. The most important characteristic of a such a HL major reversal is that the trendline break will take out multiple swing points (b57-63 took out 3 swing highs). The second important characteristic is that the trendline break move goes well beyond the ema and closes many points above in a one legged move. A multi-legged failed breakout giving a possible W (b19,50,57) of the range is more likely to fail than a one or 2 legged strong break of the TR. After b63, traders should buy a pullback to the ema and possibly any reasonable pullback. A 2 legged pullback (b69 ended the first leg) is very desirable and will usually give a hard trend. This essentially works as an A2 or fL2 (b68 was L1), which can be traded as a swing entry after a reversal.
280

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2011
Price Action Indicator
As many of you have guessed from the dots on the chart, I've been working on a Price Action Indicator for NinjaTrader. Currently, it only highlights reasonable signal bars as described in Al Brooks book and nothing else. To mechanically trade the indicator, a scalp and a swing portion can be entered with a 6t stop. At +2 points the scalp portion exits with a profit and the stop moves to breakeven. Ideally, the scalp portion is twice the swing portion to get the best results. The swing portion should be exited at a fixed profit such as +4 or on a second attempt to reverse a trend if the entry is with trend, i.e, long at HL (b25) or short from LH (b10). If its a counter-trend entry, the first sell signal should cause any swing portion to be exited (entry above b18 or below b41) On a day with reasonable range such as today this should profit from most trades. For example, today the only losing trade was the short below b57. The short below b34 and the longs above b45 and b69 were first attempts (L1/H1) and would not be traded. One option is to mark the L1/H1 in a different color since eliminating them is not an option since that would eliminate any signals in a hard trend. A 2 contract scalp + 1 contract swing would have made +40 on the wins and -3 on the losses. But today was possibly an excellent day for the indicator and not all days are so generous. To collect more data, I would need to automatically trade it and run it over a couple of years worth of data. I expect poor performance on tight trading range days since two point scalps are probably hard on a 5 point day. Large range days would probably be indeterminate, causing stop outs before the profit target is reached but a single swing may compensate for many losses.
281

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2011
Overlapping bars produce poor signals
Somewhere bear b11 was a fBO or 1Rev. Unfortunately, the bars were overlapping and full of tails, so my indicator could not catch them. On such days, I look to see if the 3m chart has clearer bars. Today it did:
282

The risk of trading 3m chart is that they are unreliable after the first hour. For example, 3m b68, b72 and b105 entries failed even though there were reasonable bars. However, in the first hour and only if the 5m chart has overlap overflow, the 3m can be used. Often setups that are unclear on the 5m are clarified on the 3m. For example the LOD reversal was a inside doji bar inside a bear bar on the 5m, but an ii FF on the 3rd push on the 3m. This may enable a great entry on an otherwise poor day. The psychological risk of trading time-frames smaller than 5m is that you get addicted to the small risk and good prices and trade them beyond the first hour. This is usually dangerous, esp. during lunch hour where even the 5m chart is dangerous.
283

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011
Early and late trend breaks
Early trend breaks are easier to spot correctly and the probability of them giving a sizeable trend move is high. Late trends are rather hard to predict and they will often go only a small distance or fail. This is why 1PB (b9) is a very vital setup to master. Catching the major portion of the early trend move allows you to relax and ignore the low probability setups during mid-day and optionally jump into any late trend break. Late trend breaks are often very hard to spot and you will encounter may false starts such as the possible W at b40 or the second W at b55. The DP b22,46,49 was probably a decent signal, but the spike on b56 took out any swing stops. The clearest and simplest entry for any trend break is a BP (b66). Even though it looks like the bottom of the range, a BP often is worth the risk given prior signals such as the failed W and the DP. However, reading 1PB and OR are vastly easier than reading a breakout from an extended consolidation. If you cannot trade 1PB consistently, its unlikely you will be able to predict the BO from an extended TR consistently.
284

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
Risk of pullbacks and failures
Traders are often surprised at how violently their stops are sometimes taken out such as the short below b14 or the long above b15. Signal bar selection is very important if you wish to use stop entries to enter on the breakout of signal bars. Almost all failures for stop entries have a few common characteristics and mastering them will reduce your error rate. 1. Overlaps: Overlaps, especially large bar overlaps are the easiest risk to recognize and evaluate. In general large bars are poor signal bars regardless of overlap. Any overlap practically guarantees the trading range attribute of the signal bars and you should wait for a small bar at one end of the overlap (b16, b26) and take the fBO of the overlap. Overlaps of small bars such as b47-51 are usually ok to take a second attempt with-trend. These should never be taken in a trading range (expecting a breakout for example) and never the first attempt. 2. Dojis before reversal bars: Dojis represent a trading range and a reversal bar after the doji does not invalidate this fact (b21-22). A second attempt, especially after trapping traders in both directions (b35) may be an OK entry to take even with dojis. 3. First attempts: Its clear from the charts that first attempts (b22, b33, b60) are highly likely to fail compared to second attempts. First attempts should be reserved for very clear and very specific cases such as 1Rev (b3), W reversals (b72) and 1PB or at the very least only for excellent signal bars. 4. Poor signal bars: Poor signal bars (b11, b60) almost certainly will give a pullback simply because some traders will fade its breakout. This is why a second attempt is recommended if the signal bar is the wrong color, has a long entry-side tail or is a doji. Even if the first attempt succeeds, there is usually a pullback before the market moves too far from the entry off a poor bar. If you consider bars that had minimal pullback, i.e., went a large distance before a pullback and hence are swing candidates(b7,64,72), they usually are well-formed bars with a strong close or are second attempts (b16, 35). Restricting your entries only to such bars should greatly reduce your error rate, which is a precondition to increasing your trade size.
285

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2011
Good and Bad fBO
I've often mentioned that trading with-trend in a trend is the easiest way to trade and fBO are some of the hardest trades to take. The reason is very simple. Market inertia dictates that when in a trend, the market is likely to continue in the trend and the with-trend entry is a high probability setup. A fBO on the other hand could turn into a BP or fail on the first or second attempts and work only on the third attempt (as a mini-W). This is why unless the range is large, you shouldn't even bother taking fBO trades. With that caveat, we can still attempt to deduce the best and worst fBO setups. The first fBO setup is b2, the failure of the breakout of the large bar b1, which acts as a small TR. Since the entry would be in the lower half of the range, it is likely to fail, esp. since its a first entry. If the entry was very close to the high of b1, this would be worth the risk reward only because the bar is large. If the bar were 4 points or smaller, its best to ignore the fBO of b1. The second fBO is b6, an attempt to reverse the close of prior day and three pushes up (b2,4,6). This is a higher probability trade and can be labeled OR. The next possible fBO/BP was b16, which was a strong BO and did not give a decent BP signal bar. At this point, we have a higher high and a higher low and we are in a possible bull trend and should not look to trade fBOs. Rather we should look for 2L PB to ema or TL and take with-trend trades or watch for a trend break. This means we would ignore b21 and even b24 if it was well-formed. The one-legged move to and close below ema at b29 possibly broke the trend, so we should again switch to looking for fBO and BP. The three push to b45 is an OK setup, but normally, I avoid taking mid-range entries when the market is not in a trend. If we had been in a trend or the move to b23 was a strong trend, I would consider buying b47 as a possible G2. The fBO at b55 is the most desirable kind of fBO. The bar that broke above the HOD turned into a reversal bar with out overlaps of any other bar. (A doji is an acceptable fBO signal at extremes of the day). A reversal bar or inside bar after the BO bar would also be excellent signals. To summarize, good fBOs are three pushes beyond the trading range or failures immediately after the breakout when you are certain you are not in a trend.
286

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
Traps I - Bars in the wrong place
Many traders lose money because they do not recognize traps in time and once they are in, they will hold hoping for a miracle. With some experience and pain, any trader will eventually learn to recognize traps and avoid them. There are many kinds of traps, but they have some common features. The first is that the bar taken alone probably looks great. For example, b1 today was a reversal bar at the ema with a very strong close. A new trader can be forgiven for assuming that its breakout will lead to a strong trend. However, a reversal bar needs to dip beyond a prior swing to be valid -- if not, its just a trading range bar. b14 is a similar trap. Although it did give a decent scalp move, being the first attempt to reverse a strong move from the LOD is unlikely to succeed and strong traders added on at the ema instead of shorting. b44 seemed to be a possible bull reversal bar at the ema but its placed after a long string of bear bars. What is more, b36 was a failed H2 and should lead to two legs down, so b44 is unlikely to be a successful trade. b65 comes after a possible major reversal (MR) and is unlikely to turn around without at least 2 attempts down. b69 on the other hand would be an OK trade if it was a small bar at the top of the flag since its a possible failure after a second attempt up.
287

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2011
Traps II - Overlaps
While traps made of bars in the wrong place need some experience to recognize, traps caused by overlaps are a bit easier. Basically as long as you remember overlaps are trading ranges and resolve to only buy below and sell above them, you can keep out of trouble. For example, b9 is a possible 1PB but since its a mid-range overlap, there is a very good chance of it failing and you should watch out for a sell signal above. A failed breakout at b13 is very likely to at least take the stops out (low of b9) and you should exit any long positions and reverse here. While b23 on its own may look like a strong reversal bar, most of it overlaps two bars and is effectively a trading range. Worse is buying above b27 assuming its a second leg or above b29 assuming its a shaved reversal bar. Moreover, b23 is the first attempt to reverse the leg down and is likely to fail, i.e., its low should be taken out (as it did during b31). The only time you can take an entry on an overlap is if both bulls and bears are already trapped AND you are entering with-trend. For example, b64 was a possible long entry after bulls above b61 were trapped out and bears trapped below b62.
288

MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2011
Traps III - Poor signal bars
The hardest kinds of traps to avoid are ones that give good patterns but poor signal bars. Unfortunately, these poor bars work a sufficient fraction of the time that they are hard to resist. For example, b22 was a poor looking buy bar but worked for a small scalp. b35 on the other hand failed despite being closer to the ema. b42 was a bar with a entry side tail and yet it worked. b61 was a doji but worked very well. How then, is a trader to distinguish between signal bars when they could work or fail with equal probability? On many strong days, especially soft-trend days, good signal bars are rare. Is sitting out of most of the trading day the only option? It certainly is the safe option and for most traders, possibly the best option but there are some heuristics that allow you to select your entries with higher chances of success. Overlapped signal bars such as b35 and one legged pullbacks such as b22 are weak. You should never buy a poor bar at the top of a flag. Combined signals such as b61 DT and G are strong. With-trend signals such as b72 G2 are strong. Counter-trend signals such as b16 and b57 are marginal and only CT signals after a clear break of the trend such as b48 should be traded.
289

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2011
Trend breakage
A small dip below the trendline such as b22 does not actually break the trend. A large move such as b34-40 on the other hand breaks the trend and the market becomes range bound. At this point, all with-trend entries are no longer viable. For example, b41, in spite of having a strong close is not an A2. Once you notice the trend is broken, only take trades at the extremes of the trading range. Preferably, you should take fBOs of new highs or BP if the breakout is strong. Occasionally, you will be able to take a DT as in b55 today or possibly even a DP (if b69 was a stronger close). Many setups in a trading range are actually traps. You tend to see a lot of setups such as b45,46 and b72,73. It may appear that another strong leg is imminent but the move usually fails if its mid-range or a successful break of the range is a requirement for success. Even setups at near the end of the range need a strong bar (b55) to expect a reasonable chance of success. The possibility of overlap and pullback is very high, so trading is generally dangerous. Its especially dangerous if the range is small (5 points of less), mid-range and made of taily overlapped bars. The patient trader should wait for a trend break and enter on the first pullback, swinging a portion of the total position. If you must trade, fade every two or three legged move.
290

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011
Inside bar reversals
Inside bars reversals are pretty hard to read accurately. Why did the breakout below b11 fail but b15 give a scalp profit? Why did b44 take out the stop beyond the entry bar (b44) before giving a scalp profit making it a poor signal while b62 turned into a great swing trade? All these bars had strong closes yet two failed and two succeeded. Using a little bit of common sense, we can reduce our chances of taking an unprofitable inside bar entry. b12 is the first attempt to break the trend and failure is expected. B15 was the second attempt and an overshoot, so it should give at least a pullback. Similarly b44 was the first attempt to fail a strong breakout (b41 was 50%+ beyond prior HOD) and was unlikely to work. b62 on the other hand was a third push up after a trendline break (TL b4-b25) and a TCL overshoot. Swing moves often end with inside bars and these are usually great with trend entries. For example, b19 ii indicated a possible swing end as did b54. To Summarize:
ñ Inside bars are excellent signal bars for failed breakouts but not for any arbitrary reversal. It can be argued that b15 and b62 were breakout failures while b11 and b42 were not.
ñ Inside bars make good signals when there is a TL or TCL violation ñ Inside bars are good signals with-trend or at the end of swings
291

Thursday, October 13, 2011
Final Flags
A final flag represents an area of high probability reversal. A classic final flag is a horizontal flag made of overlapping trend bars. These bars are likely to be large when a bear trend is ending (b18-23) but may be made of smaller bars when a bull trend is ending (b65-67). If the bars are not trend bars, a continuation is more likely than a reversal. A normal flag moves counter to the direction of the main trend (b32-38, b53-b60) and represents early traders exiting, counter-trend traders being trapped in and new traders moving in, taking the price to a new extreme. The deeper the pullback, the more likely the with-trend pullback entry will succeed. A horizontal flag on the other hand does not represent the early traders exiting. Their target is very close and they are holding to exit on the next push. Counter-trend traders do not get trapped and new traders are unlikely to enter on a very shallow pullback. A horizontal flag on the third push is very likely to be a final flag and you should look for favorable entries. If the risk is too large as in b23, its best to wait for a second entry (b38) or enter on the first pullback after the trend has reversed. This is because there is a rather high risk of being trapped when then the entry is counter-trend and the risk is large (b19 buyers). If the flag is made of smaller bars (b65-67), an entry after a with trend break and failure is preferable to avoid being trapped (shorts below b66 were stopped out). An ii variant such as b69,70 makes an excellent FF entry, especially when overshooting a TCL.
292

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2011
Limit entries in a channel
A channel is a leg made of overlapping bars with very little pullback. This means that channels do not give a clear entry. Occasionally, you get a small bar such as b8 and you could enter using it as a signal bar. However often you do not get any such bar and when it does you may find yourself buying at the top of the channel as the buyers above b22 discovered. One of the characteristic features of channels is that their first breakout almost always fails. This allows us to enter at the channel trendline whenever a bar closes very near to it. For example, b11 close could be sold and b17 close could be bought. This works very well with the first close near the trendline. Subsequent closes such as b15 close did not fare that well. Weak closes such as b21 or closes that are far away from the trendline such as b19 and b13 are suspect since there is still plenty of room to the trendline. These should be avoided. Extending these to general trends is a bit harder. In theory, you should be able to buy any strong bear close near a bull trendline such as b49 or b61 and sell any bull close near a bear trendline. However, unlike channels, where the first breakout is a high probability failure, a general trend such as the one from b35 to b79 is not expected to fail any trendline break attempt with such a high probability.
293

MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2011
Adding on
Many traders add on fresh contracts if the price moves against them. Personally, I think this is a poor choice to make. If you were wrong earlier, you are probably wrong now with a larger size. Occasionally, however, it makes sense to add on fresh contracts provided the odds are with you. For example, today I went short below b4 and when the price moved against me I added on 1.75 points higher. Normally, I would be stopped out here but at this point it made sense to add on instead. The conditions to add on for me are the following:
1. The potential reward for being right is huge and the potential loss for being wrong is small: After b4 triggered, my stop was above it, so my add on position had only 4t risk but since it was a 1PB setup, the potential reward was 4 points at least, possibly 8 points or more.
2. Entry is with-trend: The gap down, the strong b1 below ema, the failed H1 (already triggered) all point to at least a test of the low of b3, giving a with-trend entry.
294

3. You were expecting a pullback due to price action: b4 had an entry side tail and most of it was overlapped by all prior bars so a pullback was very likely. Since you already expected a pullback you can enter lighter the first attempt and add on at the pullback.
4. You are trading within your comfort zone: If you cannot be comfortable holding the extra contracts, you risk being shaken out mid-bar.
The following are poor reasons to add on: 1. Your counter-trend trade went against you: This is the simply the best way to go bankrupt, throw good money after bad. Be a strong trader and let it stop you out. This will train your brain to enter on higher quality setups only. 2. You think this will be a huge move and want to add on more contracts after the price has moved in your favor: This is usually a poor move. You should be getting out of your scalp position once the price moves in your favor, not adding on fresh contracts.
295

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2011
Kinds of 1Rev
One of the reasons 1Rev has been hard to explain is that its really a composite of various kinds of setups that happen to reverse at the high or low of the day during the first hour. Some days have more than one kind of 1Rev, leading to multiple labels on the chart. To make it easier to explain, Im splitting it into simpler components, hoping this would easier to explain and adopt. The first kind of 1Rev is actually a fBO of the opening range. If the fBO produces a decent signal and the range is sufficiently large (say 4 points) then it should be tradeable for at least a scalp. This is best labeled as fBO instead of 1Rev. The second kind of 1Rev is a reversal of the HLC of the prior day. Normally a such a reversal usually seeks the one of the prior day's extremes. This should probably be called Opening reversal (OR). The third kind of 1Rev is a pullback from a gap to the ema and reversal. This can act like an A2 and is usually a high probability setup. The last kind of 1Rev is a trend move from the open that violently reverses (b7,8). The last two are high probability high or low of the day and can lead to swing till end of day (as today did). The first should simply be labeled fBO. The second can be labeled OR. The third and the fourth are traded similarly and should probably be labeled XOD (extreme of day). I will move to the new nomenclature and avoid using 1Rev as a label. When more than one kind of 1Rev occurs, I may simply put 1Rev for brevity but will try to put the individual components where possible.
296

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2011
The AM and the PM trends
As I've posted before, the trader's best bet is to get on the AM trend and figuring that out should be the first goal of swing trading. On most days 1PB and occasionally, 1Rev turns into the AM trend. This is especially true if the day opens with a large gap from its close and especially if the open is beyond the range of the prior day. When the open is near the close of the prior day, the AM trend may not be very strong unless the distance to one of the extremes of the prior day is large. On a day such as today, that sometimes can lead to a large PM trend. Note that absence of an AM trend is no guarantee of a PM trend. Often there is no trend the entire day and the day may become a small pause bar or inside bar on the daily chart. However, sometimes trend generation patterns can cause a PM trend to breakout. The easiest trend generator to recognize is DP, the double top pullback on b46. This is the bearish analog of the double bottom pullback. A double top pullback is characterized by a double top that is well defined, i.e., several points and bars large and preferably the second low(b33) takes out the first low (b23). A two or three legged pullback (b33-45) that cannot reach the second high (b28) completes the DP. If this forms near the top of the trading range, its a high probability trend generator and should always be swung. The possible target is twice the prior range (b7-b13) and often this is a large move. DP should not be taken if its at the wrong end of the TR (i.e., bearish DP near the bottom of the TR) or the range is too tight (4 points or less).
297

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2011
Anticipating mid-day reversals
When an AM trend breaks out from the opening range, its very useful to know if the trend will run to the end of the day, break and turn into a horizontal range or reverse and attempt to take out the other extreme of the day. One of the earliest signs of an impending mid-day reversal is display of strength in the early bars. b7 and b9 today demonstrated the willingness of buyers to buy with strength taking out stops of bears. Generally strong counter-trend activity at a given price indicates a potential stronger activity at a better price. So when you see a potential reversal such as b34,35, its a good idea to exit your trend positions on the AM trend and look to enter on the reversed trend, which could run for the rest of the day or at least until it takes out the prior extreme (b62). Days that open very close to the prior day's close and trends that break out of high areas of congestion are likely to reverse due to the magnetic effect of a tight consolidation area.
298

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2011
Channel pullbacks
On a day that starts with a large gap and starts off with a strong trend, you probably expect a decent move off a the first two legged pullback. However, when the pullback looks like a channel, its a good chance will act like just one leg and a second leg needs to be complete before the trend resumes. The outside bar on b18 and the distance from the ema precludes any entry above b18 so the next logical setup is b21. b21 is a possible WP but since it was really one leg and not a low momentum move (i.e., not tiny / doji bars) it is probably one leg and another leg down is to be expected. A failed 2 legged attempt to take out the high at b29 is a failure and therefore high probability short for at least two legs down.
299

MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2011
After the trendline break
Regardless of how strong the trend was and how great the signal bars are, the trend terminates after a trendline break (b29-39). A trendline break that goes for several bars and several points should mean you no longer look for with trend signals. There fore b35 is not an H2 or A2 and neither is b41. It however, is a good trade since a trendline break after a strong move is expected to re-test the prior extreme. After a trendline break, you are in a trading range and you should only expect two legged moves that may not go to the other end of the trading range. For example, b53 gave two legs to b73; b59 gave two legs to b67; b73 gave 2 legs to b79. There is no telling how far any leg can go and b77 buy went only a point above prior swing high. This is why trades mid-TR should be avoided. They are unlikely to have many participants and their strength is suspect. On the other hand, you should fade weak breakouts and take strong breakout pullbacks. Despite being a strong bar b52 was a weak breakout. It was on a third push up (b45,49,52) after a TL break. The oio after the breakout (b52,53,54) setup a reversal. The BP at b59 was weak (TR bars b58,59). b68 on the other hand, was a strong BP short. In summary fade weak breakouts at ends of range and take strong BPs only after a TL break and avoid trying to find continuation trades.
300

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2011
Huge open bars
Large bars on open are rare, but when they happen, your best bet is to enter early. One method to enter is on a 5t move from the open and only in the direction of the gap. So for today, you would short when the price hits the purple line shown above. On most days with large gaps, the price will not take out a breakeven stop at this point for the rest of the day or until there is a W or other reversal. Large bars represent trading ranges and large bars on open are no different. A sequence of large bars is invariably followed by a pullback and a test of the extreme regardless of how deep the pullback is. This is because the large bars represent a spike and with trend spikes are usually tested. A large range in one or two bars (b1,2) often sets up a narrowing triangle (LH,HL,LH,HL...) as the market tries to find a balance between the two ends of the range. The safest way to trade a triangle is a triangle BP. Basically, wait for 2 HL or 2 LH to be taken out (b41,23 taken out at b62) and then take the next pullback. If the pullback is 2 legged as in b68, its usually an excellent setup. Until the triangle breaks out however, you can take with-prior-trend entries only and best if they violate a trendline. Trading a triangle against the prior trend is dangerous and should be avoided. Watch the poor entry bars and pullbacks for buyers above b8, b23 and b58.
301

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2011
Anticipating AM trend reversals.
I have often stated that consistent success lies in the ability to get in on a trend early, especially the AM trend. Often an absence of an AM trend may mean a potential PM trend if the day opened on a large gap but on many days its just a TR day (regardless of gap). Occasionally, however, we get an excellent AM trend which breaks and instead of turning into a trading range, reverses into another excellent PM trend. To anticipate such moves, watch for a large gap and an open within the range of the prior day (b1). If the trend move breaks an extreme of the prior day in three pushes (b5,10,18) and gives a reversal signal (b18), there is a very good chance the next two legged pullback (b45) will break into a trend. This trend should be expected to at least take out b1 and therefore is an excellent swing candidate.
302

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
Very large gap up
A large gap acts as a spike and if the price is very far from the ema, its very likely to pullback close to the ema. A 2 legged pullback to the ema is a very strong signal on a large gap day. The larger the gap, the deeper the initial pullback (b1-b14) and may look like a mini trend. Just like a day that opens with a large spike bar, a very large gap day is likely to act like a soft-trend day with very shallow pullbacks. When the first higher low is a fL2 (b19,b22), its a very strong sign of an impending soft-trend day and you should never trade counter-trend. On a soft-trend day, you can trade above doji bars (b42,58) as if they were bull bars provided they are close to either the trendline or the ema. When in doubt, you can always trade above a strong bull bar following the doji signal bar (b43,b59)
303

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011
1tf point to change in direction
Failures often make very good signals and 1tf in particular make excellent markers of a turn in the market. 1tfs are also excellent with-trend entries, so you should be careful to distinguish between the two. The classic 1tf is a failure caused by trying to take a reversal before a trendline break of sign of counter-trend strength. This is usually a continuation signal. Sellers below b14 (b14,15 inside bar variant requires an entry below b14) were trapped in a 1tf. A 1tf can also be a reversal indicator in certain circumstances. For example, b25 was a 1tf above the prior swing high of b21 on an ii flag, which acts as a final flag. Similarly, the ii variant at b39 turned into a 1tf reversal. Final flag variants are often 5tfs such as b25 (went 5t above b24), but they can sometimes be 1tf as illustrated by b41. There were another kind of 1tfs today. b6 trapped buyers in by triggering above b5 and took out its low by 1t before turning back up. Such a double trap followed by a 1tf is a kind of micro-wedge (3 pushes on 1m chart) and usually indicative of market direction change.
304

MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2011
Anticipating late trend breaks.
On a large gap day where the open is beyond the range of the prior day, the likelihood of trending is high. If the first bar does not lead to a hard trend, there is a very good chance it will at least attempt to pullback to the ema and then break into a trend in either direction. Once the day has stalled into a trading range, any trend break is likely to happen from the other end of the range, i.e, bull trend breakout from the bottom of the range and bear trend from the top of the range. This is why you should only buy low and sell high in a trading range. A 1tf such as the one on b24 could lead to a trend but when the range is small, the likelihood is lower. A trading range typically tries to widen before it breaks into a trend. A common way to expand the range is to take out repeatedly both ends of the range until the range is wide enough. This is an expanding triangle breakout and any sharp breakouts can be faded until an upside break and 2L HL or a downside break and 2L LH. The second option is to give a breakout pullback. b36 was a strong breakout of the trading range and gave a LH 3 push pullback to b53, which was also a DP. These are usually trend generators and should be taken. Entering mid-range such as the entry at b28 should be avoided unless you have reason to believe you are in a trend (LL and LH) or you are entering on a BP. In general your best swing entries are near the ends of the trading range after the trading range has been made sufficiently wide by prior failed breakouts.
305

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2011
Buying below and selling above overlaps on a TR day.
Trading strong trend days is not necessarily easy but certainly simple. You can basically take every reasonable with-trend entry and chances of success are high unless you are near the end of the trend. On a trading range day, things become much more uncertain and swing entries will be stopped out all the time. A simple heuristic to deal with trading range days is to buy below overlaps and sell above them. For our purposes, an overlap is any trading range bar such as the outside bar b7, any bars that overlap such as b54,55 or any horizontal range such as b69-72. The only restriction is that the overlap be large enough for a scalp profit, say 4 points. A trend bar such as b48 should not be faded in this manner since there is a very good chance it could turn into a spike and channel or otherwise turn into a BP. Once the overlap is in place, resolve to sell above it and buy below it. On a trading range day, there is a very good chance of a failure of any breakout beyond these overlaps and a very good chance it will at least take out the other end of the overlap. Conversely, an overlap whose breakout fails and successfully takes out the other end on a trend day such as the BO above b7 which consequently took out b7 low, transforms the day into a trading range day and you should only trade at the ends of the range.
306

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011
Trading range day as a series of fBO
Since most days are trading range days, the trader needs to have a realistic expectation of what happens once the market takes out the high or low of the day or a significant swing point. Usually, the breakout is expected to fail, but the precise entry point to trade the failed breakout should be determined after two failed attempts to continue in the direction of the breakout. For example, the strong breakout above HOD on b16 stalled and the market failed to continue twice (b20,b22) in a horizontal flag that effectively acts as a final flag. At this point, it should be clear that the market will attempt to re-test the low and you should no longer look for long trades. The break below LOD on b43 was on a large bar, but the second attempt to continue the selling failed giving a double bottom at b47,55. At this point, until the DB is taken out, the market is expected to test the high once again. Trading range days may be viewed as a series of failed attempts to generate a trend after breaking to a new high or low. Naturally, a two or three legged approach to the high or low without breaking out can also be treated as a fBO. Occasionally, the breakout will give a successful BP, which can lead to a trend, especially after a DP on the other end.
307

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
Choosing Scalp and Swing entries
The first hour of the day is likely to produce the high or low of the day and trades made then are most suitable for swinging. Occasionally, the AM fails to produce any trend moves and on such days, there may be a PM trend but normally the higher likelihood is the AM trend. A 1PB is the best option for an AM swing trade, but on some days such as today, the 1Rev is the clearest swing entry. If the early trend move results in a strong reversal, you should always swing the 1Rev entry. If you miss the 1Rev and the 1PB, you should then look for the first deep pullback such as b20 today. Its a terrible signal (an overlapped doji), so its alright to skip it. The first 2 legged pullback such as b31 or b39 often provide a decent late entry into the trend, even though it may look like you are buying the top at that point. Lunch hours in particular are dangerous and many traders will correctly trade smaller volume or take only scalps. Shallow pullbacks are invariably scalp setups since your swing stops are likely to be taken out during the next pullback. A deeper pullback is more likely to have a strong entry bar, causing the next pullback to miss your breakeven stop. As the time left in the trading day diminishes, so do the options for a swing move. Unless you are in a late hard trend, you should be satisfied with modest profits. This is especially true for trends that broke early in the day since they should be expected to show some volatility due to profit taking.
308

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011
2 Failures to close gap
On many days when the market opens with a reasonable sized gap (4+ points), the market will try to close the gap twice. If it fails on both attempts, there is a high probability of a strong trend in the direction of the gap before the market tries to move against the gap. The larger the gap, the larger the trend move before any attempted reversal. Today opened with a reasonable gap and a doji bar b1 with a close near the low of the bar, which is a poor signal for a long and was likely to fail. The second signal was another doji but with a higher close and was also a failure. The presentation of poor counter-trend signal bars is a strong indication of continuation of the trend. Two failures led to the market breaking into a trend and extending the gap all the way to bar 14. On the way, a fH1 at b9 marked a precise exit near the low of b14.
309

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011
Three push legs
Three pushes with small pullbacks between them as in b8,15,18 or b57,60,69 may act like a poor Wedge. This wedge will basically act as a single leg and is likely to give a pullback and then resume the original move, taking out the prior leg extreme. For example, the three push leg down to b18 gave another leg down to b24 before giving a two legged move to ema, as did the leg up to b69. A three push leg to ema or other barrier may give rise to a deep pullback or even reversal, especially at the beginning of the day. On the other hand a three push leg in the direction of the ema slope may give a pullback thats stopped at the ema as it did today. Trading such a leg is simple. If the leg stopped at a barrier, take the reversal if the signal is decent. If not, wait for a pullback and continuation for at least another leg.
310

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2011
Failed continuations confirm reversals
When a possible reversal pattern has triggered such as b23,24 2 bar reversal on the third push down but the original trend is still unbroken (because a trendline has not been broken), a continuation needs to fail before you can trade in the direction of the new trend. A 2 legged move after a wedge move such as b29 is often a very good continuation signal and should be taken since it often leads to a move of similar magnitude. If this move fails as it did when b31 took out b29, you should look for setups in the new direction only. So for example, while b39 worked today, on days when bars are smaller it is likely to fail. The correct trade would be to buy the A2 above b46 in the direction of the new trend and swing it.
311

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2011
Trend termination (TT)
Recognizing a potential trend is generally easy on a day like this: A large gap followed by two or three bars that close in the direction of the gap is a very strong trend attempt and taking the 1PB (b5) and holding it to swing termination or reversal is an easy decision. Not all trends reverse and many of them simply terminate into a trading range. Determining the end of a trend requires some experience. There are primarily three ways a trend can terminate and today, we were lucky to have all three. The first is a TTR made up of small overlapping bars made of mostly dojis. Given this criteria, we should already know around b22 that the trend has terminated. The second is an extended trendline break. A move beyond the trendline for many bars and many points is a trendline break. The more number of bars it stays beyond the trendline, the fewer the points that need to be beyond the trendline to constitute a break. This means that a single bar thats sufficiently large can break the trend or a large horizontal or slightly sloping movement for about 20 bars (b21-39) can break the trendline without dipping too far below it The last is a failed reversal followed by a failed continuation. b22 was a poorly formed W and FF that was followed by a WP at b39 which was unable to take out the reversal bar. Once you realize the trend has terminated, you should no longer be looking for with trend trades. Your best option is to wait for a new trend to break and enter on its first pullback. If the trading range following the TT is small, its best not to enter into anymore trades at all. If the trading range is wide (8+ points), you can consider fading the extremes of the new trading range. Note that in general, you should cannot expect any entry in a trading range to make a large move. In general, you should expect a move that's roughly half the size of the trading range.
312

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011
The first two legged pullback
On many days, the open may constitute an opening range made up of erratic moves (b1-25) that finally break into a trend (b26-b38). Some traders may get repeatedly stopped out on the initial range and their later trades will barely make up for their initial loss. The trick to avoiding being chopped up on the opening TR is to wait for a trend attempt and take a clear pullback on a strong signal bar. This is essentially the philosophy of the 1PB trade. Determining if a leg is a trend attempt is a bit tricky. Any two or three trend bars are a possible trend attempt. One bar does not usually make a trend (unless its very large). Once a trend is attempted, it will either reverse and a new trend is attempted in the opposite direction or a pullback gives a possible continuation of the orignal leg. A strong reversal attempt is 1Rev. A pullback is 1PB. Today, there was a trend attempt from b3 to b5 and a weak reversal attempt on b5. Then possibly a second trend attempt from b6 to b9. Note that this bar is made up of weaker bars and is unlikely to succeed, especially in the absence of prior bull strength. b16 represents the first two legged pullback of the day and is a possible 1PB long entry of the long trend attempt. However, the signal bar was a doji and the reversal was fairly weak. However, this is still a viable long entry. When the long entry failed to take out the old high, it turned into a first 2 legged LH, turning into a 1PB short at b20 of the original short trend attempt. Another way to read this is that b2 and b9 represent two failed attempts to close the gap leading to a bear trend. Even though many traders may have correctly read b9 as a possible 1PB short, waiting for a strong signal bar (b26) is usually the right thing to do for a profitable entry. This is because shorting below a bull bar is always subject to failure, regardless of the correct read of the market direction, especially on a choppy open.
313

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2011
Reversal bars
Reversal bars often signal reversals, regardless of where they are. A well placed reversal bar (b6) can signal the end of a move (b1-b6) but so can an incorrectly placed reversal bar such as b15 signaling the end of the prior move (b10-b15). A reversal bar followed by a reversal bar in the opposite direction (b15,16 and b32,33) is usually a very strong signal, especially if the second reversal bar can be viewed as a 1PB in a new trend move, i.e. its the first pullback after a possible reversal. Similarly, reversal bar failures are very strong with-trend signals. Often after a recent possible reversal, the failure of a reversal bar can often be used as an entry. You could enter long on a stop above b32 (for example if you did not already get a buy signal at b33) A reversal bar of the wrong color such as b39 are usually traps and if the trend has been strong, may be traded as a continuation signal. Small reversal bars (compared to prior bar or recent bars) are subject to failure such as b68 and you should only take second entries. The only exception is when the tail is at least as long as the body and you have additional signs of strength in the direction of the signal.
314

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2011
Double Wedge
A double wedge is simply two wedges that terminate at the same bar. In the chart above, it may be argued that there are two wedges W 6,24,52 and W 34,39,52 or other variant. A double wedge can lead to a large move (b63-b81) For a double wedge to form, a pullback from a recent swing point (b24) needs to be deep enough that the next leg is likely to need multiple pushes to take out. A strong deep move (b24-33) consisting of CT bars may also demonstrate counter-trend strength that will encourage with-trend traders to exit and counter-trend traders to enter beyond the swing point (above b24).
315

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 29, 2011
AB=CD measured move
When the first leg of a trend move is reasonably strong (denoted by strong bars with closes near their highs, steep trendline, shallow pullbacks, etc), there is a very good chance that the first trendline break will result in a second leg that should go the same number of points. The first leg today started with b1 and ended at the double top on b18 denoted by the purple line AB. The size of the leg was 7.5 points. This means the trader can expect the second leg to go about 7.5 points as well. The second leg denoted by the purple line CD also was 7.5 points and exceeded the expected move by 1t. Measured moves are not guaranteed moves and sometimes the price fails to reach the target or moves way beyond the target. But on a reasonable day when the price action is normal, its a reasonable expectation. The key to trading is to only take a deep pullback and only a strong leg's first deep pullback (i.e. TL break) at b21.
316

Nine Transitions .............................................. Price Action trading on the Emini
2012
317

TUESDAY, JANUARY 3, 2012
The January effect
A large gap and a move up on the first trading day of the year is generally considered a good omen and a predictor of a bull move for the next few months. When the market closes near its low, the strength of this assumption is weakened. On many years, this is an expected gap open and some traders will take a long position on the last trading day of the prior year and exit on the open for a very good profit. This is still gambling however, since a gap down can wipe you out. Trading based on a large overnight move is speculation and should be done with caution. A small position may be taken using call options, but a larger position required a spread, butterfly or other limited risk option strategy. Earnings, interest rate changes, government announcements, etc can also be traded this way. Correction: The original chart showed a buy above b6 on the fL2. The actual buy was at around the same price but above the first bar of the 3m chart as shown below.
318

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2012
The opening fBO
When the first bar is clearly a trading range bar, such as a doji, a large bar with tails on both ends or even a trend bar followed by a trend bar in the opposing direction, there is a very good chance that the first or second fBO of the opening bar can lead to an opening trend move, even if its a small one. This is because a trading range has buyers below it and sellers above it. Today the buyers below b1 were weak and were overwhelmed by sellers above. This is to be expected and led to a large move that ended in a W reversal. Many days, when the opening range is small, the market can create multiple fBOs generating an expanding triangle until one of the fBOs fails, resulting in a BP that in turn leads to a trend. When the opening range (b1-6) constitutes a weak attempt to close the gap, there is a decent chance that its failure will lead to an attempt to widen the gap. This attempt (b6-14) is usually a tradable trend move.
319

THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2012
A Higher Low after Bullish reversal is the best swing entry
A HL after a bullish reversal or a LH after a bearish reversal present the best swing entry of any move. This is because they represent the 1st pullback (1PB) of the new trend. When a day opens with an obvious trend attempt (b3) off an obvious opening TR (b1,2) and immediately gives a reversal signal (b4) it is a possible 1Rev. Ideally, the reversal bar needs to be as large as the prior bar and dip more than 1t below it. b4 therefore was a rather weak bar. However, 1Revs often are weak signals. The second signal at b7,8 dipped lower than b4 and therefore was not a good swing candidate. The fL2 at b17,18 therefore was the first HL and could be held for a swing. Note that even at the 1Rev a TL break (b7-b12 broke TL b1,6) is desirable for a swing entry (Its an absolute essential for other reversals).
320

FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2012
Trading on small days
The summer and early fall of 2011 presented very volatile price action with huge range days. Those are characteristic of bear markets or markets in freefall. Its easy to trade any part of the day during such price action if you trade off bars with strong closes. When the market normalizes and turns cautiously bullish, the range will narrow and it takes many bars to reach your profit target. During these days, usually the AM moves have the best chance of landing a profit before wearing you out. Today's AM moves gave a modest profit and the price action dried up at two hours after open. Small overlapping bars moving a few points every hour are terrible for trading and will cause many traders to second guess their positions and get chopped up. The difference in velocity of the move and adjusting to consequent expectations is hard for traders to adapt to. Traders always hope their entry will lead to the next big move, a breakout or a huge trend. The ability to gauge the price action and adjust targets down comes only with experience and no pattern can predict it. The closest sign is when bars become small and dojis. The best way to trade these days is to expect a dampening after the initial moves of the market. The dampening may not happen, but any trader who entered near the open should be looking to get out and not get in and then stay out until a fBO or BP sets up.
321

MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
The Grind
The worst possible price action is the slow grind. BW is more treacherous, but a cautious trader probably wouldn't have a position. In a grind, there is a good chance you do have a position and the price simply takes forever to move. The fL2 at b35 setup a buy and many traders did not get filled on their +2 exit until b53, and if they held that long. If your charts are set to autoscale, the small bars may appear huge and give the impression of a large move against you. It is best to The best way to trade a grind is to avoid trading it. Traders who correctly read b13 as a 1Rev got their 4 points and could choose to cease trading but anyone else had to sit through the grind. Some traders double their position and cut their targets when they see weak price action. This is usually a dangerous move since by the time the grind is apparent, adding on further may not produce rewards proportional to the added risk. The simplest thing to do is to cut your target and take a smaller winner.
322

TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2012
Inside bar after BO bar
An inside bar right after a BO bar (b8, b37) often signals a failed breakout. A failed breakout does not automatically imply a trend move will setup, but since failures generally have at least two legs, a strong signal near a support such as b20 reversal bar at ema is an acceptable signal. However, when the range is small, the market will often give a fBO or BP at the other end of the range as we saw at b37. This time it resulted in a complex pullback all the way to b67. One approach to maximizing fBO trades is to exit part on a strong push such as b17,b19 or b49 and exit the balance on any strong counter-trend signal such as b20 or b65.
323

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2012
2BR signal bars
When two bars overlap, they may form an up/down short or down/up long signal. For brevity, they may be denoted as 2 bar reversal or 2BR. 2BRs are typically reversal bars on larger timeframes like b4 on 10m chart shown on the left. Sometimes, the bars form a trading range bar such as a bar with large tails on both ends or even a doji. Its not practical to have multiple charts open all the time to verify the strength of the 2BR, so the ability to read them correctly off your primary chart (5m above) is important. The first requirement of a 2BR is that the 2nd bar is shaved. The second requirement is that the first bar dip at least two ticks beyond the prior bar. These two requirements ensure you are not just buying above a flag and that once triggered, the move will have follow through. Occasionally, you can allow 1t on the second bar if you are otherwise confident of the signal. The third requirement is that the second bar and the first bar are nearly the same size and are not misaligned by more than a tick or two. (5m b8,9 were the same size and misaligned by 2t). In the beginning, you may benefit by comparing the bars on a 10m chart. But this is best done at the end of the trading session since most traders would impair their trading performance when watching more than one chart.
324

FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2012
Measured move of opening range
When the day opens with a clear trading range presented by multiple legs, there is a very good chance that any trend attempt away from it will at least attempt to turn back into the range due to the magnetic effect of the consolidation. Often, the trend will reverse exactly at the measured move of the opening range as shown today. If the reversal is successful, then it turns into a extreme of the day (XOD) 1Rev. A successful XOD 1Rev will attempt to take out the other extreme of the day (b29) and will often result in a BP trend in the new direction. When the breakout attempt is during lunch hour, the pullback could be complex and drawn out (b29-46) Sometimes, the attempt to turn back fails in a one or two legged move and results in a 1PB resumption of the trend move. The fewer the bars before the pullback, the higher the chances of 1PB resumption of the original trend.
325

TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2012
Trading range BO vs fBO
When the price attempts to break out of a clear trading range (b1-17), there are a couple of things that will help us to determine if we should look for fBO trades or BP trades. Strength in the breakout is likely to result in a BP. Weak BO attempts are likely to result in fBO. Signs of strength are:
ñ BO bar is shaved (either end, especially breakout end) (b7, b38) ñ BO bar has at least half the bar beyond the breakout point (b7) ñ The breakout attempt is a one-legged attempt (b5-b7, b35-b38) ñ Second attempt to BO (b38 after b15) In addition an A2 (b54) is also likely to result in a breakout.
326

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012
Pause bars after breakout
In general, the best entry after a breakout (BO) is a breakout pullback (BP). Some traders enter above the breakout bar and this is dangerous since the pullback could be large, potentially stopping you out. Sometimes there is a small trend bar right (b4) after the breakout bar(b3). This bar could be of either color, but best if its a non-inside bar of the same as color as the breakout bar. You can enter on this bar with a stop on its other end. The reasoning is that a real strong breakout of a new trend is likely to continue further up before a pullback. Therefore, this is applicable to b4 for example and not b36. Note that the breakout bar preferably has to have a strong close (shaved or 1t). Tails on the breakout bar are likely to cause pullbacks, so you are better off entering on a BP. If there is no pause bar or if you are uncertain if the pause bar is a proper trend bar, its best to let the breakout progress and wait for the first pullback. A pullback right after the BO bar can be shallow but acceptable as long as you are entering on a strong signal bar. If the pullback is after an extended move, you need to wait for a deep pullback. In today's trend break that would result in an entry above b29 (since b23 is not a deep pullback).
327

THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
Trend breaks do not imply reversal
A trend break implies just that: The trend is no more. A reversal of the prior trend needs certain other things to happen. Even a trend break(b31-39) and a test of the prior high (b47) does not imply an imminent reversal. Often in a bull move on the daily chart, intraday moves are often bull trends that break and turn into a horizontal trading range. Today, after the trend break at b39, the price action turned into a series of fBOs that are typical of horizontal trading ranges. In addition to a two or three legged test of the extreme after a trendline break, average sized, non doji bars are a good indication of a possible reversal. The abundance of doji bars indicates that any breakout (b53) is likely to fail and move back into the range (b54,55). The best entry would be a possible LH after a LL (b56). Usually, on a small day, its best to stop trading after a trend break if the bars are dojis. Trading ranges are dangerous when the bars are small and you may need to use money stops instead of price action stops. The highest probability trades are usually in the AM and you should always look for a decent 1Rev or 1PB when the daily chart is in a bull mode since you may be unable to trade profitably in the PM.
328

FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2012
The first close beyond the ema
The 20 bar ema is the only indicator Brooks Price Action uses but this gives several signals including G, G2 and A2. In addition there is one tiny bit of information that it reveals thats very useful to price action traders. In many respects, ema is a barrier like a trendline, swing point, high and low of the day or prior day and so is subject to fBO and BP trades. In general, an A2 can be seen as a 2 or 3 legged fBO of the ema. The ema represents a sort of average price and many traders and algorithms like to enter at a better than average price. So the first time the price touches the ema in a very strong trend, its likely to find support. Many traders (and algorithms) will only make a decision on the close of a bar, which gives us some clues about how the price reacts after closing beyond the ema. The first close above the ema (b12) should find sellers. This implies any signal bar here is likely to have some follow through, especially a 2 legged LH such as b13. Often, a close beyond the ema is on a strong breakout bar and will result in a small or weak pullback bar (b31). This is a sign of strength and implies continuation. If the close after the ema breakout bar does not close reverse below the ema, it should be always be taken as a sign of strength. Two or more closes beyond the ema should be seen as a sign of strength even if a pullback bar later reverses the BO (b55), the likelihood of the move continuing at least for a while is high. The only caveat is that BW often fails to obey these rules so its most useful when the market was recently trending.
329

MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2012
Reading weak reversal signals
When a reversal signal looks weak, whether its an oio (b810, b32-34) or a regular reversal bar, if the entry bar has a strong close (shaved or 1t) like b11, then there is a very good chance it will act like a reversal bar with a strong close. Often, such a bar is a strong reversal bar on a higher timeframe when combined with the strong entry bar as the 30m chart on the left illustrates the opening reversal at b8-10. 2BR (b76,77) can be considered strong as long as the second bar takes out the first bar with a strong close and are of comparable size and not misaligned by more than 1t or 2t if shaved. When a reversal signal that is poor has a poor entry bar (b28, b70), there is a good chance of continuation. When the signal indicates a major change in direction (b11,b35), usually its a far safer option to take the first pullback in the new direction (b17,b43). When a signal is ambiguous, the chances of a pullback very soon after the reversal are high.
330

TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2012
Signs of counter-trend strength in a gap open
Large gaps tend to widen rather than close, since something fundamental would have changed to cause the large gap. However sometimes a large gap will attempt to close and will trend for the rest of the day, often closing at its high. The first bar after open (b1) closing opposite to the large gap is usually the first sign of strength. If its an average size trend bar or a reversal bar, its a very strong sign. (If the gap is small, the bar could simply act like a pullback and should not be considered). A b2 triggers such a b1 and closes strong is a second good sign. If b2 attempts to widen the gap and fails giving an fBO (b3) its also a good sign. 1tfs (b7,9) and 5tfs on attempts to widen the gap are the next signs to look for. Strong trends will usually have shallow pullbacks and average sized bars instead of deep pullbacks and large bars.
331

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2012
Trading large and outside bars
Outside bars often trap traders on both sides and since they have buyers below and sellers above, they are effectively a 1 bar trading range. Large bars are very similar. Any bar thats much larger than surrounding bars should be treated as a 1 bar trading range. The correct way to trade such a bar is to look for a fBO or BP of the bar. When the outside bar's breakout is relatively strong, you should look for a breakout pullback. If the breakout is weak, look for a failed breakout. b7 was an outside bar with a strong bull close. Its also a possible mW, so its a good candidate for a BP (b14). b37, which is a large bar also had a strong close but its BO was weak(b38) and could be shorted. However, it right away gave a BP (b40). The context of the outside bar is also important. You want to buy low (b14) or sell high (b38). b62 is a poor short since its a sell low and also because you are expecting another leg up or at least a test of b54 after the strong move up.
332

THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
Microtrendlines (MTL)
Microtrendlines are trendlines that are drawn on adjacent bars rather than adjacent swings as shown from b7-b9. An MTL right after a potential reversal is often found before a very strong trend. To correctly identify a strong trend from an MTL, the bars forming the MTL should have strong closes. Dojis, bars against the trend, etc. greatly reduce the strength of the MTL and could easily turn into a HL. A failed violation of an MTL (b10) is an excellent entry. Often this is the few places where you could enter mid-bar on an outside bar (if b10 took out low of b9 for example). However, when it does not, you could still enter below the bar if it has a sufficient sized body and strong close. If the MTL signal bar is a doji such as b10, you can opt to wait for the next entry such as the small trend bar b12 after a breakout bar. While technically, you could draw an MTL from b13 to b16, these bars are not all made up of trend bars with strong closes so an entry of the MTL violation (below b18) is not a good entry. Neither is the bull MTL from b73 to b76 worth trading purely on being an MTL.
333

FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012
The most dangerous Price action
The most dangerous price action bar pattern is barb wire (BW) but the most dangerous larger price action pattern is a wide slightly sloping channel. BW is fairly easy to recognize and avoid, for example, not many traders would short b40. A narrow channel such as b60-71 is also simple to trade: You can just buy near the low of the channel. However a wide slightly sloping channel such as b7-b43 tricks traders into thinking that a reversal is just around the corner and will force them to buy every new low. Typically, the counter-trend signals (b9,16,28,34,43) look far better than the with-trend signal bars (b6,13,24,31,40) trapping traders on the wrong side every time. There is no easy way to trade such a channel. The simplest trend trading requirement of buying only higher lows and selling only lower highs would have protected you from every poor signal except b8. The first higher low at b43 actually did work if you used a price action or money stop of 2 points. A patient with-trend trader would only take a long trade at b60 after the channel trend line was broken at b50 or so.
334

MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012
Opening range: 1Rev vs 1PB vs fBO
It is important to know the definitions of 1PB, 1Rev and fBO to correctly trade the opening range:
ñ 1PB is the first pullback after a strong or successful trend attempt ñ 1Rev is a strong reversal after a weak or moderate trend attempt ñ fBO is a failure to create a trend breakout of the opening range
If we look at b1 today, its clearly a trading range bar. There is no trend yet. Some traders will buy the low of b1 hoping for an fBO. However, this is dangerous since b2 can be a large trend bar that continues the downward move. b2 attempted to break into a bear trend and failed. At this point, we have a fBO. However, its not tradable since the signal bar is weak and we would be forced to buy mid-range. Note that this is not a 1Rev, since only trends can reverse and there are no reversals within a trading range. b3 is a trend bar, but since it did not breach the trading range, its not a successful BO. b3 is not a 1PB since there is no trend and its a bar of the wrong color in any case. If b3 was very high and a bear bar, you would be selling near the high of the trading range and you could argue its a 1PB even though b2 was a weak breakout bar. b4,5 again is an fBO but the signal bar is a weak overlapped doji and is not worth trading. If a trading range is at least 4 points and the other end is at least 2 points away, often the signal will work for about half of it (1 point in this case), but often its just a distraction because a clearer setup is usually just a couple of bars away. b6,7 is an inside bar and a LH after a LH and LL, so a possible trend. However, it would be a very shallow 1 legged pullback after a weak reversal bar b5. You don't really want to sell near the low of a trading range unless its at least a 2L pb. b9,10 is a W reversal and since we have a weak down trend, this can be labeled a 1Rev. Since the reversal was not near HLC of prior day, its not an OR; therefore it is labeled XOD (extreme of the day).
335

TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2012
Trend termination (TT): Failed Reversal followed by failed A2
There are primarily three kinds of trend terminations that turn strong trends into trading ranges (rather than reverse the trend direction). The first one is a TTR, where the bars gradually become tiny and dojiish. This is rather easy to identify and is usually seen in bull trends. The second is a double top or double bottom that triggers but does not result in a breakout on the other side. The last one is a failed reversal followed by a failed A2. This is usually the case with the termination of a bear trend. b22 was an inside bar signal following three pushes down (and a slight TCL overshoot). However, since it wasn't a bull reversal bar, a shaved inside bar near the bottom of b21 or a second entry, its a poor signal and unlikely to attract many bulls. This was followed by two sideways legs and the second attempt to sell off at b27 was off a poor signal bar (a 3t bull doji) in the middle of the range. This is unlikely to attract a lot of bears. This is the earliest indication of a terminated trend. The 1t nominal new low (1tf) at b29 is caused by the remaining bears exiting at the low of b21 and confirms the end of the trend. From b30 to the end of the day is a trading range composed of small trend legs like all trading ranges. As expected almost all signal bars were very poor and there were no large moves.
336

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2012
Deep vs shallow pullbacks
The most successful trades are off with-trend signal bars with strong closes and no overlap in a deep pullback. In particular, they give good swing entries that tend to go to 4 points or more. The first requirement is that there is a trend. A trend should be fairly easy to spot. If the chart in front of you is moving from bottom-left to top-right or top-left to bottom-right, you are likely to be in a trend. The conventional definition is higher highs and higher lows for a bull trend and lower lows and lower highs for a bear trend. The second requirement is a strong signal bar. A weak signal bar in a shallow pullback and overlap will work in a soft trend such as the earlier part of today (b23,33,41). However, once the trend is no longer soft, every such signal bar is likely to fail (b57,61,65). The third requirement is no overlap, because overlaps are trading ranges and their breakouts are likely to be faded. However, if the signal bars are strong and at support, you can take some second entries since they can act like breakout pullbacks. If you are unsure, avoid overlaps. The last requirement is a deep pullback. A deep pullback ensures there is sufficient room to the previous extreme to allow a profitable exit. For most trades, that equates to about 10ticks for a 2 point profit. However, as long as the pullback is deeper than a recent bar (b69) its likely to succeed with-trend. Soft trends and hard trends are special in that they dont give deep pullbacks or good signal bars but nearly every signal works. But on the other 80% of the days, these rules will greatly reduce the number of trades you can take and greatly improve your consistency.
337

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
Horizontal Tight trading range (TTR) or Dojistan
A prolonged horizontal barb wire pattern is nearly impossible to trade and can be labeled dojistan. Attempting to trade dojistan using stop entries will invariably lead to failures. Anticipating dojistan is simple. The moment you see bars getting smaller than 1 point and when many of them are dojis, you should be cautious. Bars that are two ticks tall such as b55 are early warnings that indicate possible dojistan. Note that any bar thats 4t or smaller should be treated like a doji while in dojistan and is usually not a setup bar (b59, 62). The only possible approach to trading the dojistan is to fade trend bar breakouts. By definition, dojistan is a tight trading range. Since most breakouts of trading ranges fail, you could simply sell the close of a trend breakout bar with a stop 1t beyond it. So for example, you could short b61 close and b74 close on limit. The best approach however, is to do nothing. The one or two points you could make in a dojistan are not usually worth the risk and the energy you would need to put into it. Better price action is coming shortly, so just wait for it.
338

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2012
Trading range as a series of fBO
If trends can be seen as a series of breakout pullback, then trading ranges are a series of failed breakouts. I normally avoid trading fBO unless the range is wide enough to net an acceptable profit. In general that means if you like a profit of about 2 points, you want the range to be twice as much, i.e. 4 points. The reason is that many fBO trades will fail to go to the other end of the range (b33,b40). Thus narrow trading ranges cannot be profitably traded using stop entries with consistency. Even weak wedges such as b40 are usually not worth trading. The quality of signal bars is very important in entering any trade as it is directly correlated to success rate. The quality of the bars around the signal bars is equally important. On a chart with mostly well formed bars, you can take any decent signal bar but on a barb wire chart you cannot expect a move large enough to justify a trade. But eventually, the market will move out of the tight range and create bars that become tradable (b75-81). If this occurs with sufficient time before the close unlike today, you can look for high probability trades.
339

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2012
Liquidity effect
Stampedes are caused by a large number of people running in the same direction. Any lone person standing in their way will certainly be trampled. This is essentially what a trend bar is. A large number of traders advancing in one direction. When a stampede encounters a stampede in the opposite direction, the crowd usually wont go anywhere. There may be some pulling and pushing but nothing really happens. These are small doji and other trading range bars. On thinly traded instruments, liquidity is low and even small number of people can stampede without encountering resistance easily (until they tire and rest). This is why the thinner the instrument, the more volatile it is. Liquid instruments however, move very slowly and small days are a necessary component of their overall move. Price action within these small bars are murky as the chart today shows. There is pushing and pulling from both directions and one of them has to give very soon. Even on a day like this, the best moves are simply bars with strong closes on deep pullbacks (b53). With the usual exception of 1PB (oio at b17), the best trades are usually with-trend, deep pullbacks on a strong close.
340

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2012
Trend termination (TT): TTR
We clearly know that when a trendline breaks, the trend is over. There could be a reversal if the break was strong and if not, a trading range. Often the trendline break is obvious even when a trendline is not drawn on the chart. For example, today, b46,47 broke the trendline decisively. If you were holding a long position, when do you get out? You could wait for a test of the high and get out at b70, but you would need to hold for most of the day just to get a good price. You could also perhaps exit on any strong bar such as b50 or exit on the next L2 such as below b55. However, it does not save you much time. Ideally, you would exit on the close of b24. How can you predict the trend move will not go much further for a while? A trend by definition should have mostly trend bars. When the bars turn into a TTR (b19-23), there is a good chance that the trend is nearing termination or at least a deep pullback. Any strong bar after it is a very attractive exit for someone who bought the reversal at b8. Usually, there is a second chance if the move up was very strong (no deep pullbacks). You could also exit at the high of b24 or a tick below it and would be filled at b44. Remember that trend termination is not reversal. Its just an indication that the best option is to exit your positions and wait for a fresh trend to break.
341

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2012
A2 variants on small bar days
When bars are relatively small, A2 can form that are hard to read and enter. This is particularly true for the first pullback of a new trend since its hard to anticipate. There are two methods to attempt to read these. The first is a fH2 or fL2. When a trend has just started and the first pullback is near the ema, if it attempts and fails to move against the trend twice, you have an fH2 or fL2. For example, b17-b19 was an fH2. If b19 was a smaller bar (even if it was an outside bar) it would be an acceptable entry. When the bar is larger, the risk of a large pullback reduces the probability of success of entering on an outside bar, even when its an fH2 near the ema. The second is an A2 variant where the first attempt is an inside bar. For example, b33 was an inside bar with a higher low and higher close. This makes it an H1 and the next attempt above b35 effectively makes it an A2. The most important precondition is that a trend should exist or have recently broken out. The DP at b13 is a trend generator, so the next fH2 is a high probability trade and the W at b27 reverses the trend and therefore the A2 at b35 is a high probability trade.
342

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
Trend termination (TT): Double Top
The first pullback in a new trend is usually the deepest and the following pullbacks get shallower. As pullbacks get shallower, they attract fewer new buyers since profitability of buying a pullback is proportional to the depth. Eventually, the pullbacks are so shallow (b52, b58) that they do not find buyers and early buyers will exit near the high. This will lead to a double top or double bottom and terminate the trend. Since this is a termination and not a trend reversal, you would need to wait for a new trend to break out before entering a new trade or only trade fBOs.
343

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2012
Narrow range days distort your perception
Narrow range days are typically terrible for me and force a lot of errors. I have learned to cope by sitting out most of the day. If the first two hours have a range of 6 points or less, its best to be very cautious and only scalp every trade. The reason is simple. The tight range will act as a magnet and will cause any breakout to fall back into the range. One of the hard things about trading a narrow range day is that it distorts your perception. For example, b37 was a possible BP trade with b29 being a possible BO above HOD. If the range was wider, it would be fairly obvious to trade only shorts near the upper part of the range and b37 would be a poor decision. Similarly, the second fBO at b43 may have broken into a trend and b66 is a possible A2 but if the range was wider, it would be obvious that b5065 was a horizontal flag and a possible FF. Tiny bars, shallow pullbacks, poor signal bars distort your perception and force many incorrect reads of patterns and signals and the narrowness of the range reduce profit potential and probability of every trade.
344

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2012
When reversal bars dont trigger
Shallow sloped, wide channels fool even the best traders into thinking a reversal is just around the corner. There are some ways to guess if a reversal would fail and one of them is that a reversal bar with a strong close refuses to trigger. Today for example, b9, b18,b45 refused to trigger despite having strong closes. This usually means that sellers are selling the close of the strong bar instead of buying it. It also shows lack of confidence on the buyers side and you should look for continuation trades in the original direction. An overshoot of the TCL and a strong signal such as the oio at b73 is an essential requirement to take a reversal trade with any hope of success.
345

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
When reversal bars don't trigger - II
One of the surest signs of a strong trend is that reversal signals will have no takers. This is because traders find the bear close to be a buying opportunity and in most cases, you should cancel an order if it does not trigger from the signal bar. For example b36,37 was a possible sell signal after 3 pushes up, However, since it did not trigger, you should consider going long instead. This would allow you to buy above b41, a strong close after two legs down in a strong trend. Similarly b62 was a possible 1tf after a shallow TL break making it a major reversal candidate. But since it did not trigger, you should not go short. However, due to the trend break, you should not look to go long either. The right course of action is to wait till the range is 4 points or larger and then trade fBOs or wait for a BP or other new trend.
346

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2012
Choice of trading instrument: Is thinner better?
A highly liquid instrument such as ES can form tiny bars and give weak moves. A thinner instrument such as TF (shown left) usually shows clearly formed bars and often results in strong moves. So what should a new trader trade? An experienced and profitable trader can probably trade any instrument with some adjustments to his technique. Some momentum type trading also works better on thinner instruments. For a new price action trader, the correct answer is the more liquid instrument. Why? For many reasons, but mainly because while the bars look great on a thinner instrument, the information they carry is unreliable.
Take b5 today. It was a doji on ES but It was a nice strong bull bar on TF. At first glance it may look like a 2 legged move to the ema or otherwise a sign of strength. The bar triggered and stopped out buyers. On the other hand b5 was a doji on ES and more important, it did not trigger. Shorts below b4 did not get their stops taken out. Pullbacks after entry are of acceptable size. Stops on thinner instrument need to be larger and unless you are capable of consistently taking targets larger than your stop, you should avoid trading thin instruments. A new trader should not focus on making money but on doing the right thing and trading correctly. Once your percentage of wins is high, you can simply trade larger size to make the same amount of money that a thinner instrument would provide. Once your size increases, (a good problem to have) you may not be able to trade thin instruments without significant slippage. That said, a thinner instrument with a small tick size such as NQ is often a good choice for new traders.
347

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2012
Breaks of Steep trends
When a trend is very steep such as the move from b5 to b23, the entire move acts like one leg and often act like a spike and channel with the channel acting like a second leg to the spike. Typically, most of the momentum is exhausted at the spike, causing the channel to be comparatively shallow in slope. Since the channel is a W, you should expect 3 higher pushes and then a test of the channel start (b35 low) which could occur in the next day. Since the channel is a weak trend, if its wide enough to trade, you can still take A2 and other deep 2 legged pullbacks until the third push is complete.
348

MONDAY, MARCH 5, 2012
The first bar: Trend bar
The first bar, regardless of appearance should be considered to be a 1 bar trading range. Most traders would agree that two opposing trend bars make a trading range. This is true everywhere and when there is only one bar, you dont have information about the second bar to assume it would be continuing trend bar. When the second bar is an opposing bar, regardless of appearance, chances are very high that what you have is a trading range. A buy above b2 would therefore be a buy mid-trading range, which is a low-probability trade. You need to buy near the low of b1 for a higher probability setup. The right approach to trading two opposing bars would be to treat it exactly like any other trading range. Fade a weak breakout or enter in the same direction on a breakout pullback. So if b4 had a strong close near the low of b1, it would make a nice second attempt to fade b1.
349

TUESDAY, MARCH 6, 2012
3 small pushes: Channels, Micro-wedges and wedges.
Three pushes in the same direction should not be automatically labelled a wedge. All three pushes do is to terminate a leg. After termination, the move could continue after a pullback or move in a horizontal trading range until a fresh breakout. For example the channel from b2 resulted in three small pushes (b5,7,11), which resulted in a termination of the leg. The micro-wedge (b13-15) terminated the counter-trend leg. The weak wedge (b26,29,34) terminated the second leg of the full move down from b2 and the price moved horizontally in a trading range for several bars. The key takeaway here is that none of these three pushes were automatically tradable. the channel to b11 continued after the pullback to b24. The mW to b15 continued backup after a two bar move and the mW or small W to b34 simply terminated the trend without any clear direction. A wedge needs to be very strong and end with a clear reversal bar for a high probability reversal trade. Even then, most traders are better off entering on the first pullback after the W reversal (W1P). If you are in the old direction, You should consider exiting on the third push near the TCL (b11). or you could wait for the bar to close and exit on its close if the bar has a strong close (b34).
350

THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2012
Preferring deep pullbacks
The most important skill to master trading with trend is selection of the appropriate pullback to enter on. Depending on where you are in the trend, you have a few options. For example, let us suppose you determined that the W move and FF to b12 ended the bear move and is setting up a reversal of the opening trend. If you did not buy b12, you could always enter on the very first pullback. b15 high was lower than b14 on the March contract and you could have bought above it. i.e, Shallow, 1 legged pullbacks are acceptable right after the trend begins. Often you can also buy the first 2 legged pullback. For example, b28 was the first 2 legged pullback and in this particular case, there is always the risk that the breakout above b1 would fail and give a deeper pullback or reverse the move up but in many other cases, the first 2 legged pullback of a strong move often works even if its not deep. Normally, I will not trade a pullback that's not deep even if its the first 2 legged pullback. Exceptions are when its a softtrend day, when the pullback is at ema and the signal bar is strong. b28 presented none of those conditions. But what you definitely can buy is the first deep pullback. All shallow pullbacks (b15,18,28,30,35,39) can be considered part of the same larger leg and the first deep pullback should usually gives at least one more leg in the same direction. A deep pullback is one where the pullback is at least 2 points from the extreme of the day and deeper than the size of at least one recent bar. Breakouts of deep pullbacks, (especially the first) are stronger and fill your targets quicker with a smaller risk of pullback to your entry price. This makes them excellent swing entries. If the breakout from a deep pullback goes much beyond the previous extreme, the chances of the trend terminating on a test of the prior extreme diminish and you can take the next deep pullback with higher confidence.
351

FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 2012
Anticipating DP setups
A prolonged horizontal move breaks a trend, but you dont need to wait that long to detect a trend termination. Any poor reversal (b66) followed by a poor A2 (b71) is sufficient criteria. Any cluster of dojis after a pullback starts (b15-b23) is usually also sufficient to declare a trend termination. At this point, you are in a trading range and no longer in a trend. Any A2 or other continuation trade is likely to result in failure. Even if you missed reading the termination, entering only on strong signal bars would protect you from poor setups. For example, b26 did not trigger, b32 was a bear doji, b38 had a doji before it, b52 is an iii in BW. None of the buy setups were acceptable, so you wouldn't be buying them. Sell signals were pretty poor as well, most triggering off bull bars or had dojis preceding them. The first acceptable sell was b55 inside bar and the next attempt was b63. A simple filter of not selling before a 1 legged close below the ema (b47) would have also kept you out of trouble. At some point you would figure out that the trend has ended, regardless of your method of determination. At that point, you are waiting for BP or fBO. A DP is a kind of fBO that results from two failed attempts (b46,55) to break a barrier (b22 high) and a third attempt (b63) that falls short of the prior two attempts. So while the DP at b63 is clear, its important to note that b32,38,51 is not a DP long. The reasons is that DPs only fade trading ranges and never extend them. So if the TR is narrow such as the horizontal move today, there's a very good chance that any DP like setup to go long will fail. A DP to go short however is more likely to succeed since the move up simply has brought us to the top of a trading range.
352

TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 2012
Trading FOMC
Trading FOMC is rather tricky. I used to trade breakouts of prior swing points during FOMC before I was a price action trader but have since moved to the more accurate method of treating FOMC initial bars as a trading range and trading their fBO and BP. For example, the actual FOMC announcement resulted in b58, which was a large outside bar. Such a bar is a trading range and its BO can usually be faded. b59 was a rather weak bar with a small body compared to its tail size but had a strong close. If this bar was near the high of b58 it would be ideal since it would not force a short mid-TR. On the other hand a 2L fBO at b65 provided an fBO entry on the other side of b58, which resulted in a large rally. Note that not all FOMC announcements result in large moves but when they do, its usually a good risk to reward ratio. I recommend fixed size stops especially for large bars to limit your losses.
353

MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2012
Kryptonite days
A trader eventually graduates from having mostly losing days with a few winning days to the inverse: mostly winning days with a few losing days. But the losing days are likely to be disproportionally large. This happens occasionally due to the trader not being physically or mentally in top shape on that day due to lack of sleep, illness, relationship issues etc. But usually, this is because the trading system has a real weakness under certain kinds of price action that has been exposed by the market. If you find yourself at this point, you are probably already a break-even trader. If you can tame or eliminate these disastrous days, you probably already made it as a consistent trader. The first one or two disastrous days can be pretty devastating. This is because your initial success has encouraged you to increase size and your growing P&L has given you an enormous confidence boost. This probably meant you traded large size and re-entered every time you lost and at the end of the day were shocked to see a week or two's profits wiped out. The very first thing you need to ask yourself is if you have lapsed into old habits. Confidence and a high win-rate can make you feel invincible like Superman and you may have lapsed into your old habits. Eventually Superman is taken down by Kryptonite. If your discipline has been good and you haven't yielded to the temptations of poor habits, there is a good chance that certain kinds of price action may simply destroy your success rate. For example, today's wide slightly sloping channel is a kryptonite to AM trend traders such as myself. Narrow range days are also kryptonite for traders who like to take 2 points or larger on each trade. Overlapping signal bars are kryptonite for traders who like to enter on stops with a price action stop. Today was all three and if you know your kryptonite you can avoid it by not trading. Similarly, trend days are kryptonite for traders who like to fade every breakout. Soft-trend days are kryptonite for traders who rely on only patterns for their trading decisions. Hard trend days are kryptonite for traders who take every reversal signal and so on. The key is to know what kind of price action is unsuitable for your style and avoid trading on that day. Since realization comes too late, the best course of action is to exit after a certain number of losing trades on any day. Barring this, the second approach is to not take another trade for at least two swings after you are stopped out. With experience, it may be possible to recognize the kind of price action and switch to a different style that's conducive to the current price action.
354

THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
The ideal first reversal
The simplest to read kind of first reversal is a trend move from open consisting entirely of trend bars that penetrates a support such as HLC of prior day or ema (today was both C of prior and ema) and gives a reversal signal. If the reversal signal is weak (for example, it has a large entry side tail or is a bar of the wrong color), it is likely to take out the low and try a second time. Such a 1Rev is often the low of the day and will close near its high so its a good candidate for a day long swing. In practice, if you get a very sharp move (b31-35) that looks like an overshoot and gives a decent profit, its a good practice to take some or all off and wait for more price action.
355

FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
First bar: doji - Tight days.
A doji first bar can give a diverse range of days from tight ranges such as today to large trend days and wide trading ranges. A tight day such as today is extremely dangerous to trade if your first target is 2 points or larger. Halving your target is poor risk management since you cannot practically also halve your risk. So a 6t risk with a 4t profit potential requires far higher probability of success and even then the rewards are usually not worth the pursuit. Any trend attempt that rapidly degrades into doji bars (b16-20) should always raise suspicions of poor trading action and you should sit out until the bars become normal or price breaks out. Most bars after the initial move were in a 3 point range and the probability of success of price action entries is extremely low so its best to sit out.
356

MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012
Simple 1PB
The simplest 1PB consists of a trend move from the first bar, i.e., at least two trend bars that break beyond the first bar (b2-b4) and then a pullback to a higher low. If the bar that began the pullback is a reversal bar (b5), then its best to take a 2 legged PB or a second entry. A mW such as b6,7,9 today can also act like a 2L pb. Factors strengthening the 1PB signal are:
ñ A two legged PB or a mW PB ñ strong close on signal bar ñ signal bar not too large ñ signal bar at ema or trendline A 1PB that takes out the prior extreme of the day in one leg can often be held till the end of the day. A 2 legged move however often stalls or reverses at the extreme of the day and its best to exit and wait for the next signal.
357

THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
The first opposing trend bar in a channel
A channel provides few entries and can drag for many points. One of the most reliable entries in a channel is to fade the first opposing trend bar (b15, b27, b60). You can usually sell the close on limit with a tight stop say 2 or 3t. This works particularly well if there were no opposing bars since channel inception. The reason it works is because this is essentially a first channel breakout that you expect to fail. Note that you need a trend bar with a strong close. A doji such as b57 or a weak close such as b11 is usually not reliable. Often this is just an optimization since you get a signal right after (b16, b30, b61) and you can simply choose to trade it with a normal stop entry.
358

MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012
Signs of an extremely strong trend
When the prior day has formed a strong signal bar on the daily chart, the next day can often be a large trend day. A large trend day can often be held for a swing till the end of the day. Signs of a strong trend:
ñ Strong close prior day (b81) ñ Large gap, no selling (b1, b3,5) ñ Strong breakout from opening range (b8-10) ñ 20 bars or more before reaching ema (b33) ñ Multiple A2 and fL2 (b47,54,62,75) ñ Small moves off counter-trend signals (b22,28,33,64) ñ Sideways pullbacks (b43-47, b51-54,b61-65) ñ failed W (possibly W42,50,59) On a very strong day, its acceptable to trade overlapped signal bars and doji signal bars as long as they are with-trend.
359

THURSDAY, MARCH 29, 2012
Two swing trades a day
A swing setup is one where after filling your scalp target, the price does not come back to test your entry price. This enables you to move your stop to breakeven and let the market take you to higher profits. In general, there is a swing setup in the early part of the day and one in the late part of the day. Often one or the other could be missing. If both setups are in the same direction, its a trend day and could consist of multiple small with trend entries where you could enter and ride the trend. If the setups are in opposite directions such as today, its a trend reversal day. Its a valid trading plan to only enter on these two setups and hold for 4 points or more after taking a scalp profit of 2 points. The trick to doing this consistently is to ignore reversals and only take the first pullback after a proven reversal. For example, if you had to guess that b2 was a reversal, you would be sorely disappointed. b5 also would knock your breakeven stops out. The first pullback to a LH at b8 is the high probability swing setup. Similarly, if you guessed b14 was a reversal, you would be disappointed. Even if you correctly assessed that b30 marked the low of the day, a buy above it failed to give 2 points and your stops below the entry bar were taken out. If you had the patience to wait for the first viable signal bar b53 at the HL, you would be able to swing till the end of the day. In summary, a great way to take swing setups is to take the first pullback after a trend breakout or reversal and to ignore the actual lows and highs of the day.
360

MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2012
Late entries in a channel
I normally avoid late entries since they are usually dangerous. However, if you have a reason to believe an extended channel is setting up, for example due to the spike b7-10 you could look for mid-channel entries. First you need to recognize a channel is in effect. In general if prices are moving in the same direction but most bars are overlapped except for a tick or two, you are probably in a channel. Unlike the move from b7 to b10, the move from b16 was clearly a channel. A classic mid-channel entry is to fade the 1st breakout of a channel or 1chbo. This occurred possibly at b20. If you missed it, you can always fade opposing trend bars in any channel, the first one is the best. Today, the closest we got to an opposing trend bar was b26. A first tail in a channel in the direction of the channel (b21) works very similarly to the first opposing bar. Its represents a pullback in a channel and an opportunity to buy other than the worst price. Occasionally, a 1tf (b27) sets up which is usually a high probability trade. Care must be taken not to enter too close to end of expected channel move, such as the measured move of the length of the spike or the third push (b19,26,31). Often, a strong channel will continue after a trendline break as a much shallower channel (possibly b37 to b67) so you should exit your positions but never fade a strong channel until the trend breaks. A prolonged horizontal movement such as today, breaks a trend but you could probably already guess around b36 or so when you get a series of dojis that the move was probably over for a while. Even so, SC days are notorious for continuing to keep moving till end of the day on terrible signal bars so caution is to be exercised when trading counter-trend.
361

TUESDAY, APRIL 3, 2012
Early strength indicates strength late in the day
When a day breaks into a trend (b18-62) and presents a reversal signal (b63), you need an assessment of the chances of success and a possible swing add-on. Will this attempt only go to the ema? Will it fail after a couple of weak attempts to go up and continue the slide down? There are a few indications you can use to make such assessments. First of all, was there a trendline break? (b33-b54). If not, the chances of a successful reversal are probably low. The trend could terminate and move horizontally, but a trendline break greatly adds to the chances of a successful reversal. The second thing you need is a Wedge (b33,57,63) with a strong signal bar (b63) or a successful test of the swing point that led to the trendline break (b33). To swing your position, you need indications of strength early in the day (b5-10,b11-15). If there was no early strength, its unlikely that your move will get too far. (It does happen, but is rare).
362

THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 2012
Trading a broken trend
Once the price moves many bars beyond the trendline, the trend should be declared broken. When the market touches a live trendline, it reacts like it touched a live wire (b12,b15). When the market closes below the ema in one leg and stays below it and well beyond the trendline, the trend is likely over. A broken trade is inherently hard to trade since its not really a reversal and its not really a pullback. When the original trend is strong, there is a possibility that the market will present a slow channel moving in the same direction as the original trend. Occasionally such as today, the channel may be in the opposite direction. These channels are inherently hard to trade and most moves would take a really long time to give a 2 point profit. The right way to trade them is to realize that channels are wedges and wait for three pushes (b29,40,54) before trading against the channel. The best option is to wait for a test of the prior extreme or wait for a new breakout and enter on a pullback.
363

MONDAY, APRIL 9, 2012
First bar: Reversal bar
When the first bar is a reversal bar in a place where it does not make sense such as a bull bodied reversal bar above a gap or overlapping the prior day's range, there is a good chance it is a setup for failure. On the other hand, a bull reversal bar below a large gap will often begin a trend from the first bar. When it fails to produce a trend from the first bar, chances are high that the day will turn into a trading range day. This means whenever there is a new breakout, you can look for a fBO trade is the range is large enough (4+points). Occasionally, such a breakout gives a BP trade such as b26, which can be held often to the measured move of the opening range.
364

TUESDAY, APRIL 10, 2012
First bar: Outside bar
When the first bar overlaps the prior day's last bar completely, it should be treated as a trading range. This means you can fade its breakout or take a breakout pullback if the breakout is strong. An outside first bar, especially if its a large bar (and indeed any large first bar) is a fade candidate. You should never trade its breakout and if you do, take a fixed (scalp) profit. A breakout pullback, especially a 2 legged BP of a large b1 could be taken, but unless your entry bar is large, you are likely to encounter a deep pullback. When the large bar's BO is large and gives a successful HL, there is a decent chance of spike and channel developing is high. Often the channel will be a measured move of the spike.
365

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2012
Bar Strengtheners: 5tf
Ideally, signal bars are well formed and obvious, have a strong close and have a great looking entry bar. In the real world, signal bars are often less than ideal and your ability to read their strength from signs other than their close greatly increases your trading opportunities. A very simple to observe sign is a 5 tick failure, which occurs when a breakout goes 5 ticks above an entry and turns down. A 5tf means several traders did not get filled on their exits and are likely to be forced to exit when price fails by taking out the breakout bar. Ideally, a 5tf gives a bar that can be construed to be a signal in the opposite direction. A bear inside bar (b14) after a 5t breakout above the prior swing (b3 high) is a very good example. Naturally, this is probably a valid signal even if it was not a 5tf. b54 was a 5tf after breaking 5t above the signal bar b52. It was a bull inside bar, and therefore a weaker signal, but the 5tf gives it additional strength and allows for a short setup. b5,6 formed a 2bar reversal after a 5tf below b4, which increased the chances of a successful fBO trade. Similarly b32 was a 5tf below b5 and succeeded despite being a poor bar. Note that 5tf is not a magic formula that guarantees successful trades. It only gives some additional strength to the signal bar. You should be happy to pass on a trade that otherwise does not meet your criteria. For example, b71 was a possible 5tf below b32 but it made a poor trade since 71 was probably too large and too close to the end of the day. It was also possibly just one leg when at least two were expected off the A2 variant short below b68.
366

THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2012
Trading a trend from the first bar
A trend from the first bar is rare and treasurable event. When one of the first one or two bars are near a support such as the ema or low of prior day and form a strong reversal bar, there is a chance of a trend from the first bar. Once there is a trend breakout above the reversal bar (b2), there is usually an attempt to fail the breakout. Its usually a prudent approach to wait for at least one more bar (b3) before jumping on the trend. If the next bar has an upper tail, you can usually buy its close with a stop below the bar. This is not a high probability setup, but the risk to reward ratio is usually high enough to justify the trade (often 10x). The conservative approach is to wait for any pullback such as an inside bar, a bear trend bar or any 2 attempts to fail the trend (b7-11). This is essentially a 1PB setup and should usually take you to a decent profit, often the best swing entry of the day. On an obviously strong day, you can add-on or re-enter on any deep pullback for a swing such as b27 or b55. Counter-trend trading on a day like this is dangerous and you will miss many great with-trend moves.
367

FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2012
Your trading edge
A trader will pick up a few skills after trading for a while. If those skills are better than the average trader, he gains a small edge over other market participants. These skill sets are common across trading systems:
1. Correctly determine market direction 2. Roughly estimate how far the market is likely to move 3. Find precise entries 4. Determine stop size for an entry. 5. Hold through the trade and not be shaken out by any minor pullbacks or loosen stops 6. Hold a winner for extended duration 7. Gain important market information from losing trades and apply to next trade Once you have identified your edges, tailor your trading to amplify those edges and insulate yourself from market action where you don't have an edge. For example, if you can gauge market direction and estimated move accurately but your entries usually get stopped out, consider trading options instead. For example, if you estimated a 10 point down day in the first few bars but would usually be stopped out if you tried a price action entry (as I was on my b4 short), you could simply buy SPY puts in the AM and hold it till it reaches your target or till end of the day and exit with a profit. On the other hand, if your sense of direction is weak and consequently you have no ability to hold a position for too long, but you can enter and exit precisely, you can take multiple small scalps with small fixed profits.
368

TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 2012
Spikes as trading ranges
Large bars in the first hour such as b7 potentially setup a trend, often a spike and channel in the direction of the bar. If the bar has good follow through, then you can expect potentially a move up thats equal to the measured move of the spike. Sometimes, the spike is seen as a fade opportunity and the price will struggle to stay above it. When that happens, a fade of the spike should try and take out the other end of the bar (at b60). A strong reversal at that point could lead to a reversal of the entire down move (completed at b81) if there is sufficient time left in the day. So whenever you see a large bar in the early part of the day, remember that its a potential trading range. Its successful breakout could go to a measured move in the direction of the bar and an unsuccessful BO could fade the entire bar. This estimate can be used as a guide for holding swings.
369

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2012
Failed trades reveal market information
When a trade fails, it should give you some information that you can use in subsequent trades. If a failure does not give you any information, you should avoid trading it. Most of my setups give certain definite information about market structure when they fail. For example, b9 today was a possible 1PB setup. Its a poor bar, being essentially a red bar, the pattern is a 1 legged deep pullback and the location is a double bottom with a strong trend bar. Even though I never usually buy 4 red bars, during 1PB I relax my rules a bit not because the trade is higher probability but if it works, the risk to reward ratio is usually worth it. When b9 triggered and took me into a trade, if it works I expect a large bull day and given the recent deep pullback on the daily chart, it could be a 10 point or larger move. However when the gap open is large, there is always the risk of it being too expensive for fresh buyers and the trade could fail. The trade did fail when b13 stopped me out. The failure gave me new information: Today would not be a trend day but rather a trading range day bounded by the AM spike (b1-b5). The only acceptable trades now are buys in the lower third of this range (b22, b41) and sells in the upper third until a breakout and BP sets up (b73). A marginal setup such as b50 can be passed up since its not high enough in the range and in barb wire.
370

MONDAY, APRIL 30, 2012
Predicting breakouts
As repeatedly posted, predicting breakouts is one of the hardest tasks a trader can do. Even when you do predict it, its often better to wait for the breakout to fail or give a breakout pullback and enter after the price action has moved from chop to trending. The simplest way to look at chop is to view it as a trading range. Taking a signal only at its very top (b41) or bottom (b63) is the best way to avoid being chopped up. Chops are often illformed channels and are often variations of three push Wedges. For example, b41 today was a 3 push wedge (b20, 23,41). However, reading wedges in chop is very hard in real-time and requires a lot of practice. A strong trend entry bar confirms your entry was a good read (b42 was a trend bar compared to other entry bars null or bear), however holding through choppy waters is harder since effectively your trade is a fBO trade and it only needs to give two legs. When the signal bar is clearly beyond the chop (b63) it is a far better entry and should at least retest the start if the last move (b41 high)
371

TUESDAY, MAY 1, 2012
Climax top
Occasionally, you will hold through a large move that will give you decent profits. At a certain point, you would need to make a decision to either exit or to hold for even more. There have been many times when I have exited at a decent profit and the price has ended up moving beyond my target by many points. I never regret it, simply because a guaranteed good profit is far better than a theoretical great profit with the real risk of losing all your gains.
372

However, optimizing exits is a very important part of trading and I've been able to approach it from many angles. The simplest way to exit is to wait for a trend termination signal. On a strong bull move such as the AM trend, if you see bars getting smaller (b13-25), there is an excellent chance that the termination will be in the form of a TTR (b33-37). When buyers are no longer able to create healthy looking bars, the move is over. If you see three or more dojis in a pullback, its best to exit right away or on the next push. Barring this, if the price has moved sufficiently through the trendline (b31-47) and especially if the move has its own trendline in a counter direction, there is a very good chance the trend is over and you should look to exit. While those are great places to exit, sometimes you get what I call an undeserved gain. A push that comes from nowhere (b28-29) and this is a form of climax and you can exit anywhere during the push. Sometimes a climax bar can be a trend bar or two such as b29 and you can easily exit on its close. You can also exit on the first L1 after the climax (below b30). My preferred method is to exit on the push if my original target is close because a climax can quickly turn into a reversal bar.
373

WEDNESDAY, MAY 2, 2012
Alternative Instruments I - Micro contracts
A new trader to futures risks losing a significant chunk of his capital in his early trading years. One option is to trade on SIM for a while and get used to price action and correctly handle trade management. But after a certain point, one has to risk real capital to learn to trade. To avoid blowing up your account very quickly, you could trade the micro-contracts. Microcontracts are a tiny fraction of their regular size contracts. The micro version of 6E is M6E pictured above. Every tick is just $1.25 and a 10tick loss will set you back $12.50 plus commissions. To make your winnings count, you should trade M6E on larger timeframes. The 30m chart shown above shows sharp movements especially around European and US open that you can hope to catch if you read the market correctly. Larger timeframe also forces you to hold for longer and gives fewer better setups. Once you reach some level of consistency, you could switch to the regular contracts.
374

THURSDAY, MAY 3, 2012
Alternative Instruments II - Thin volume contracts
Warning: TF trades are experimental at this point. The recommendations in this post may need to be revised in the future. Thinly traded instruments are inherently volatile. This is because any disproportionately large order can easily start a stop run that can move the bar several ticks or even points in seconds. This makes it a great option for momentum traders. A chart of the Russel contract TF above shows large moves today. The risk of slippage is very high on a stop market order. A stop limit order will usually save you from slippage but very often prevent you from getting into the trade. In my experience, you are better off allowing a 1t slippage on a stop limit and widen your stop by 1t. (Ninjatrader and many other platforms allow you to set a default value for stop limit.) You effectively need about 12t stop to trade TF correctly. After the AM session, TF is quite dangerous since bars in chop look like they are ready to breakout into a strong move (b29, b35, b36), whereas in a thicker contract such as ES, those bars would usually look poor. Fading poor setups and other scalp tricks that may work on ES simply will fail spectacularly and your account will die a death from a thousand cuts. The simplest way to trade a thin instrument is to take only two trades in the AM. Basically take the second attempt down (b6 short) or the second attempt up (b12 long) depending on the strength of the prior attempt and the strength of the setup bar. If you get stopped out on both, you lose twice. If one of them works, you will usually make a decent profit.
375

FRIDAY, MAY 4, 2012
Trendline tests and break
When the price dips beyond a trend line and gives a continuation signal right away (within a bar or two), its a test of the trendline and the test has succeeded b18,b33. A successful test invites fresh orders in the direction of the trend. Every tiny dip beyond the trendline that sets up a with trend trade is often a swing trade and can be held until a definitive trendline break. When a trendline test fails, such as the move from b39 to b49, the trend is broken and you should no longer be looking for reversals or continuations. The market is now in a trading range and you can only trade fBOs at the extremes of the range. A trendline break is a trend termination (TT) and does not automatically imply a reversal, even with a test of the prior extreme (b63 was a test of b39). Only fBOs can be traded and all fBOs should only be expected to give two legs. In the event of an fBO trade taking out the other end of the range in one leg, especially with a strong breakout, you could expect a BP setup and a continuation of the trend. If the new breakout is in the opposite direction from the old breakout, it may work like a major trend reversal. If its in the same direction, it works like a trend continuation.
376

TUESDAY, MAY 8, 2012
Definitive signs of successful reversal
Most reversals fail and every pullback is simply a failed reversal. b3, b10,b14 all had a decent chance of reversing the down move but failed. b22 finally succeeded but taking every reversal hoping to catch "the one" is a terrible way to trade. After a couple of failures (b3 and b10), its simpler to assume every reversal attempt would be a failure and trade with the prior trend and stop when the market proves you wrong. Using this approach, you have flipped your odds from many failures followed by one success to many successes followed by one failure. And if the trend line is obviously broken before a signal sets up (b30) you can choose to not trade in the old direction any more and look for signs of a definitive reversal. A bear move is definitively reversed once the market has put in 2 higher highs (b29, 51) and two higher lows (b43, b58). At this point there is a good chance that bulls and bears both agree that the tide has turned and enter in the new direction. A higher low is always better than trying to capture the exact reversal, since you will eventually see a two legged pullback in the new direction. You may have missed b22, but you could get in above b43 for just a few more ticks. Or you could wait for a 2L pb to the ema (b59), which is likely to give a stronger move.
377

THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2012
Selecting the optimal entry
One of the most challenging tasks for any trader including experienced traders is to hold through what looks like chop and take their trade all the way to a swing. Sometimes this is easier when the pullback and congestion is far away from your entry price or you are already in a trend and the price moves away from you favorably right away. When a trend terminates, determining which entry will lead to a large move is called "The breakout problem" and is a considerably difficult task. To do this, you need to be able to first determine when the trend has actually terminated. A failed reversal followed by a failed A2 (b54,55 and b61,62) is a classic sign of trend termination. Waiting for a trend to terminate before taking a trade saves you from two nonswing entries (b58 and b64). Once the trend is terminated, you need to evaluate the chances of a reversal. On a trading range day with bull strength displayed earlier in the day (b6-22) and recently (b55-61). The chances of a move to the other end of the range are decently high. On a strong bear trend day, this would be a lower probability trade.
378

THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2012
Exiting and Adding on
In general, I try to exit when my trade has shown strength and more correctly, undeserved gains. When I'm surprised by the strength of the move, its a good sign that I'm better off exiting. Therefore bars like b25 and b72 which shock the trader with good fortune are often signs of being exit candidates. When the move is nacent and especially one-legged as in b25, chances are good that you can expect another leg or even a sustained trend after a deep pullback. A large bar after a sustained move such as b72 on the other hand is most likely a sign that the end is near. The first pullback (b29), the first two legged pullback (b14) and the first trendline break (b46-53) but only after a strong move (b22-46) are usually good candidates for continuation trades. Of these, The first pullback after W or W1P (b29) is often an excellent candidate for adding on even if all your targets have not yet been met. Any small bar with a strong close in a trend (b24, 29, 71) can be used for adding on as long as they are not inside bars (b39) or doji (b45). Some traders add on any strong trend bar (b2,3,4). I avoid this because a pullback can come at anytime and you may not be able to hold through for example, if you bought b35 or b55. The theoretical stop for adding on a trend bar is the other end of the bar so its best to do it on a small bar.
379

FRIDAY, JUNE 1, 2012
Channel Risks
Shallow sloped, wide channels are very hard to trade, primarily because they don't always obey many price action rules regarding trends. For instance, a bear trend is defined as a move with lower lows and lower highs. This implies that when a counter-trend move takes out a swing point, the trend may have terminated. Shallow sloped trends routinely take out swing points and continue in the direction of the original trend (b33, b61). Second attempts can fail (b31) while first attempts succeed (b52,69) and stops need to be larger than 6t (b63). Apparent wedge reversals can fail (b21,58) . The price will often not touch a trendline or ema before making a continuation move (b17,52) causing traders to miss a lot of entries. Stops beyond swing points are routinely stopped out (b33,61) making it very hard to swing even if you do get in at the right price. While all this looks like chop, its a very strong trend on a higher timeframe. The chart on the left shows the current day's 30m chart. Its obviously a very strong bear channel and the entire day had only one bull bar. What looked like strong bull moves on the 5m chart were only up-tails on the 30m chart.
380

A move above a swing point, which would be trend break in a normal chart is only a poke above a prior bar and is effectively a 1CBO type continuation setup. The trendline itself has remained true and has never been broken the entire day. A channel remains in effect until a counter-trend move results a sustained trendline break. The way to enter trades on days like this are no different from any other day. The best entries are two or three legged moves to the trendline or ema (b34, 63). Since counter-trend swings are huge, you should simply exit on the second or third push in the direction of your trade (b49 or b55) and wait for a new setup. The single most important rule regarding shallow wide channels is to never trade countertrend until the shallowest trendline (b1-b9) is broken.
381

MONDAY, JUNE 4, 2012
Small or no gap
When the gap between the last bar of the prior day and the first bar of the current day is very small (overlapped or less than recent bar), You can treat current day's price action as an extension of the prior day's price action, at least for the first hour or so. Therefore, when a small reversal bar forms at the trendline from yesterday's down channel, its usually an acceptable trade, even on the first attempt as long as the signal bar is not weak (doji or overlapped). If you take it as a setup, you should expect it to take out the last swing from the prior day. As the day progresses, a newer clearer trendline will form (b2,18) and will take precedence over prior day's action. Future trades should be evaluated using the recent price action of current day.
382

TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2012
Correctly reading a breakout test
Price action can be arbitrarily defined a set of breakouts and breakout failures. There are breakouts beyond bars, swings, high and low of the prior and current day, the trendline and popular indicator values such as emas, collectively called barriers. Breakouts in a trend in the direction of the trend are likely to succeed until the trend breaks. Breakouts in a trading range are likely to fail until a trend is birthed. This is true for any barrier, but some are easier to see and more reliable than others. For example, the three push pullback (b24-44) after a strong move up (b15-23) gave an attempt to BO into a trend at b45. The market tried to reverse this breakout but found buyers exactly at the old entry price (b57). Such a setup is called a breakout test (BT). BT can also occur at the breakout of swing points such as b17 testing the BO above b12. This is possibly also a BT of the ema. A breakout test is one of the few places where a doji signal bar should be considered strong as long as its close is near the entry and not overlapped (i.e, it can be treated as a 2BR). The way to anticipate a BT is to note any strong BO bar and if necessary mark its breakout points. For the BO bar(s) b15,16 since there was no buy signal bar, there is only one breakout point, the swing high of b12. For the breakout bar b45, both the swing point b40H and signal bar b44H are BT points. Limit traders can simply place a limit order to enter at this price with a 3t or 4t stop. Stop entry traders should enter on the breakout of the bar that touches but does not dip below the breakout point. Missing the breakout point by a tick or two is preferable to a pullback beyond it. Once a trend is established, it does not make sense to call every pullback a BT since a trend is expected to continue, its just a regular pullback and not anything special. That is, there is no point in calling b71 a BT since its basically just a 2L pb in a trend. Note that a trend can develop without any breakout tests and therefore BT are not a requirement for trending price action.
383

MONDAY, JUNE 25, 2012
Channel risks
A large gap up or down often does not result in a steep trend but rather in a shallow sloping channel. Of course, all moves can be contained in a generic parallel trend and trend channel lines and be called a channel but for the purposes of this post, a channel is a specific type of price action that represents a very hard to trade move. A channel can be easily distinguished from a trend by the following characteristics: In a channel, most with-trend bars overlap each other. In a trend most bars don't. Compare the leg from b7 down to b12 vs the leg up from b47 to b50. Notice the almost complete overlap of bars in the former. Most bars in a channel have tails on one of both ends. A strong trend should be made of trend bars, at least in the trend direction. Notice the strong closes on the up legs b47050 and b68-72. Channels are highly likely to take out fixed stops and breakeven stops. Shorts below b7 were triggered and unless they had a large stop of at least two points or more, were probably stopped out. Strong signal bars at b14 and b18 had their breakeven stops taken out. Such price action can make it hard to catch a swing using the normal trade management style.
Channels can reverse on the most unlikely bars. This makes channels very dangerous to trade. For example, today the channel reversed on b31, which was a bull doji not unlike b9,16,27 before it. The only way to trade channels is to get in early and trail behind every new swing point (b14,18,23,28 for b7 shorts). Channels can reverse at anytime and channel in the opposite direction and that makes taking a potential early reversal (say within the first hour or two) potentially a day long swing.
384

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 27, 2012
Wierd old trick for estimating targets
One of the most challenging and error-prone tasks a swing trader needs to perform is to estimate his target. Over-estimation forces you to give up a lot of your gains waiting for your magic number to hit. Under-estimation is slightly better since you can always look for a fresh entry.
385

For strongly trending days, this is a fairly easy task. On most strong days, you can often swing till the end of the day. At the very least, you can swing till you meet a sustained trendline break and then exit near the prior high. For example today we had a very strong trend move up from b5. The sustained trendline break b45-57 was obvious even without drawing a trendline. Therefore, the trader should expect to exit near the prior high (b63H). Trading range days are harder and your ability to judge the moves are far more important since the trend break is likely to break all the way and take out the other end of the day. One trick is to use the observation that trading range days are usually proportional in range to the first bar of the day. If b1 is 2 points then the daily range could be expected to be around 10 points. Therefore you can simply exit when the range comes close to the expected boundary. For example, today's b1 was 2.25 points. Since the low of the day was at 1317.25, you should expect the high of the day to be around 1317.25 + 2.25*5 = 1328.50, which was indeed the actual high of the day. Note that this is a guideline and not some magic formula that is infallible. Very large and very small first bars are obvious exceptions to this rule. Even so, you should always exit a partial position when you have a decent profit and your swing stop is very far
386

THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 2012
Choosing target for W and WfBO
A wedge in general is probably the single easiest setup to swing trade. This is because you have a dependable target for a W reversal. In general, a W reversal will attempt to reverse the entire wedge move. If the Wedge reverses the move in one leg, you can expect an additional measured move in the same direction.
387

However, if the W approaches the start of the W move in multiple legs, especially three legs, its usually prudent to exit and look for fresh trades. For example, the W35,51,61 was an extremely strong signal and should be expected to reverse the move all the way to b25 high. Therefore the high of b27 and perhaps a tick or two above are reasonable targets. Since the move up was possibly more than one leg (two bear bars b62,69 make it a mW). The prudent thing to do is to exit. Occasionally such as today, when the move is strong enough to that the move up essentially acts like 1 leg (b62 and b69 only ticked 1t below) to continue the move up an additional size of the W.
MONDAY, JULY 2, 2012
Spike and inverted channel
A strong spike can give a channel in the same direction of the spike if the price continues to move in the direction of the spike. Occasionally, such as today, we get a channel in the reverse direction of the spike. A channel in the direction of a strong spike often goes to a measured move of the entire spike. Traders expecting a channel in the bear direction today were probably surprised to encounter the rarer inverted channel. There is one clue that foretells a possible inverted channel: A smaller spike in the opposite direction (b9-11). If the spike is followed by a spike of any reasonable strength in the opposite direction, you would be cautious of a possible inverted channel. A with-trend channel often (but not always) goes to a measured move of the entire spike. So for a 10 point spike such as today, traders could expect a channel lasting 10 more points down. An inverted channel similarly will reverse the entire spike and is often a good swing at the first pullback (b32) or first deep or 2 legged pullback (b56).
388

FRIDAY, JULY 6, 2012
Channel Types
Channels occur very often and trading them profitably is presently an area of research. In general, there are three kinds of channels and they are traded similarly from a higher level view but the specifics are different. Trading Range Channel (TRC): A TRC is a shallow sloped wide-range (3+ points between swings) channel made of large bars (2+ points). The move from the open to about b31 today is a classic TRC. For most traders, TRCs are the most dangerous form of price action. This is because they always appear to be just about to reverse and most of these attempts fail. A new trader may be trapped trying to trade today's AM several times: fBO b5, 2L reversal b9, HL after strong reversal b14, W b19. Note that most of these bars were fairly decent and patterns looked clear. a TRC will trick and frustrate traders over and over. These are dangerous to trade because the stops required are large. Leg Channel (LC): A leg channel has a slightly steeper slope and usually smaller bars. Most bars are however overlapped and there are many bars with tails. The move from b47-59 is a good example. These are fairly easier to trade since the stops required are smaller. You can enter after any pullback or small bar as long as its near the channel trendline. For example, b50, b55 but not b52 since it was away from the trendline. A small poke beyond a prior bar sets up a 1st channel breakout setup (1CBO). The first BO against the channel is a high probability failure so you should take a trade in the direction of its expected failure. You can also fade the close of the first opposing trend bar (b54). Trend Channel (TC): A trend channel is actually a regular trend move with very small bars. They appear to overlap but each bar dips only a tick or two below the prior bar implying traders entering aggressively on the close of the prior bar. b59-b64 is a very good example. These can be traded like any strong trend. Enter on the first pullback (b63) or the first opposing strong close (b67) or the first tail in the direction of the move (for example if b64 had a 1t bull body). Channels types are all related to each other. A TRC is a LC on a higher timeframe, which is a TC on a higher timeframe. TCs in turn are regular trends (such as b6573) on a yet higher timeframe. Therefore trend strength from weakest to strongest is TRC>LC->TC->Trend. As you see the price action change from one type to another, it may be an advance notice that a trend is likely to breakout as today or when it moves in the opposite sequence, it may indicate that the trend is about to terminate into a trading range.
389

FRIDAY, JULY 13, 2012
Breakeven odds
Some of you may have noticed me go from +2 scalps to +2.5. This represents a shift in my risk management strategy that was under extensive testing. Previously, I have posted a risk management system that could be used by traders to take a moderate fixed profit with a small fixed risk. That system works because every win is larger than every loss and a breakeven trader should still accumulate points. However on some days such as today, the price action obviously favors swinging your position. Traders who wish to swing should use the following risk management strategy. This strategy is methodology neutral, i.e. it should work with any kind of trading/entry system.
ñ Initial Stop is -5t for full size. ñ 1st target is +10t for half size. Never loosen or tighten the stop until the first target is filled or stop is taken out. If not, you lose the benefit of the math. When first target is filled, move stop on balance to your entry price and let it run. The swing portion can be exited at any price above your entry price but you should try to get at least 4 points.
390

In the breakeven case: ñ 50% of trades stop you out without filling first target. (10t loss) ñ 50% of trades fill first target and pullback to take your breakeven stop. (10t profit)
This means even if you can never ever swing a trade, the worst you can have is breakeven as long as your win-rate is at least 50%. If you can manage to keep your win-rate above 50%, your account should slowly accumulate winnings. You can do the following to keep a better than 50% win rate:
ñ Trade only after an obvious trend has broken out. ñ Trade only deep pullbacks in the trend. ñ Never take reversals. ñ Extreme caution between b24 and b60. ñ Avoid poor signal bars (overlapped, tails, too large, wrong color, etc.) If your win rate is less than 50%, just stop trading anything else except an obvious trend and first get above 50%. A win rate under 50% means you are doing something very very wrong.
MONDAY, JULY 16, 2012
Stop and Scalp size for swing trading
In a previous post, I discussed a way to optimize your stop size. From an extensive history of trades, including various experimental trades, I deduced that my best entries pullback 4t or less after entry. This implied that I could possibly get away with a 5t stop for most trades.
391

On the left you see a chart displaying the Maximum Adverse Excursion (MAE) of over 100 winning trades. (Losing trades are irrelevant since they always have MAE of where the trade was stopped out.) The most striking feature of this chart is that most trades are crowded in the first 5 columns (0t, 1t, 2t, 3t and 4t). Entries that have pulled back beyond 4t after triggering and have eventually been profitable less than 10% of the time. Out of those only 3 have managed to give more than 10t profit. I have not made a lot of trades with stops larger than 2 points recently so the sparsity on the far right is probably simply insufficient data. But when I did the same analysis long ago with price action stops (beyond bars) I noticed a similar pattern. I focus on large market moves and signal bars that lead to large market moves pull back very little after a they trigger. The obviously important turns and their pullbacks today were b8(4t), b23(2t), b40(0t) and b59(1t). If you notice, they pulled back very little after they triggered. For swing trading, you need to only focus on the large moves and ignore small moves, i.e. your aim is to buy a bar like b40 and hold it till b59 rather than buying the low of b50, b54 and selling at +1 profit each. Therefore, if you are looking to swing and the price pulls back more than 4t from your entry price, it may not end up being a good swing at all. The next step then is to tune your trading to accurately assess the largest market turns of the day and take only those setups. Once you have a fixed stop size, then your scalp size is automatically twice the risk if you want to swing half your contracts. (If you want to take a fixed profit, anything larger than your risk is acceptable). This gives a 5t fixed stop and 10t scalp target for my style of trading. Since most of my entries eventually end up being large moves, on an average I'm always better off swinging at least half. Naturally, 5t/10t above is determined based on my personal trading history and for my strategy of trying to only trade major swings. Your mileage may vary and you would need to determine your stop and scalp points based on your own trading data and strategy
392

TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2012
The ideal price action
I have mentioned wide channels with narrow slopes as the most dangerous price action. In contrast, a steep narrow trend with clean bars and no overlap of swings is probably the safest price action and the most profitable.
Clean signal bars (b2) leading to large trend entry bar (b3), with good follow through (b4), shallow pullback that does not overlap prior swing (b6), these are the mark of a very clean and easy day. On such a day, there are few traps. All signals probably work when strong. The W reversal at b16 or the fL2 at b25 for example, while definitely grounds for suspicion on most days ended up working despite the weak close and overlap. Until the price action finally became choppy after lunch, the action was clean and clear. If you encounter such a day, take any with-trend signal since it probably will succeed. When possible swing at least one contract to a decent profit. These days are rare, so make the most of it.
393

THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2012
Risks of fBO
An fBO trade requires the highest amount of skill to swing and the least amount of skill to scalp. The reason is that fBOs are expected to give two legs but that's all. There is no expectation of a target. There is no expectation that the other end of the trading range would even be tested. Since legs can be fairly complex and contain mini-legs, the end of an fBO move is highly subject to a trader's experience and judgement. For example, the fbo trade below b37 today was expected to give two legs down and it did go sharply to b54. At this point, a trader needs to assess if there would be one more leg to the low of the day or a turn right here. If the trader correctly guesses the price would turn and buy b54 or the HL at b60, then at b63, the question becomes: will this move end here or was this just a minor pullback in the larger trend down and is likely to result in another move down. The complexity can be dealt with by assuming that every second push against the traders position forces an exit. For example, b37 sellers would exit above b54. b54 buyers would exit below b63 and so on. Such a strategy requires the trading range to be wide to be profitable. The trading range needs to be roughly the size of a day's move (8-10 points). An opposing strategy is to trade every fBO as a trend and exit when the price takes out a stop beyond a swing point. This means b54 buyers would hold until their stops below b74 are taken out at b79. None of these are easy and fBO trades certainly need a scalp target since the potential for large swings is undefined.
394

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2012
The road ahead
My frequency of posting has reduced in the past few months but rest assured, with the generous help from my small research team, I'm actively working on bringing several important facets of trading to light. A small selection of currently active research areas are listed below:
Trading Channels: One of the most important problems in price action trading is to trade channels using a small fixed stop without resorting to scaling-in or other poor habits. Since channels are common, this is a top research priority.
Predict tight days that aren't worth trading: Some days are extremely tight and on a day with a four point range with choppy overlapped price action, trading is dangerous. Predicting such a day early enables us to stay out and skip trading.
395

Predict choppy opens that are likely to result in stopped out trades: Opens that otherwise look like potential setups may never generate a profit and may stop you out or enter a chop zone. Correctly detecting this enables you to skip trading until price action becomes more amenable to trading. This chart is the AM of the FOMC day that eventually led to a huge rally.
Predicting Breakouts: One of the hardest problems in price action is predicting which bar would lead to a successful break-out. For example in this chart, b57 short led to a breakout while every other signal prior to it failed. A high probability prediction of a breakout enables us to judiciously enter a profitable swing trade. And more: I'm also working on exiting losing trades for breakeven or a few ticks loss by detecting trade failure early. The setups 1Rev and 1PB have been further broken down into a small set of distinct setups that enable the trader to anticipate and trade them bar-by-bar. As soon as these setups complete the requirements of rigorous testing, they will be published here in a series of blog posts.
396

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2012
Components of a successful trade
A trader needs to determine 4 important attributes for a successful trade: ñ Direction ñ Probability ñ Room for profit ñ Stop
Direction is obvious. If you are on the wrong side of the market, your chances of a scalp trade are smaller and chances of a swing trade are nil. A simple way to determine direction is to draw a trendline and trade only when the price tests the trendline. Trendlines should be drawn from the start of the move. Most days, this would be from the LOD or HOD but some days such as today, the beginning of the move could be a different bar such as b24. Experienced traders can also detect a reversal such as the three push reversal at b9 and trade the reversal of a trend. New traders should skip reversals and take the first reasonable pullback after the successful reversal (b24). Probability of success takes slightly more experience to judge. On most days, after determining the market is in a trend, you can take every two legged pullback such as b44 until the trend breaks (a sustained move beyond the trendline). On hard trend days, you can take any pullback and any small signal bar in the direction of the trend as long as the entry side of the signal bar does not have a large tail.
397

Room for profit takes quite a bit of experience to judge. In a normal trend, a pullback can be expected to at least take out the prior extreme by one tick and therefore a deep pullback is likely to give sufficient profit. However in hard trends and large gap opens, even a couple of ticks may give a decent profit. High volatility and clean patterns are friends when it comes to profit targets. Barbwire and tiny bars are terrible enemies and greatly interfere with profit target estimation. Stop size is possibly the hardest to correctly determine. Signal bar stops often work but could be too large from a risk:reward perspective. A fixed stop is easy to use for clear patterns and strong bars but very hard for channels and overlapped bars. For example, despite correctly reading the low of the day today, my stop was short by 1t resulting in a losing trade and missing out on a great swing setup. Taking a fixed stop and continuously keeping track of market direction using the nine transitions means you only look for probability and profit target when entering a trade. Passing up shallow pullbacks means you only need to focus on probability, which boils down to looking for a clear set of patterns and strong signal bars. The fewer parameters involved in your decision making, the more confident you will be in your decisions and help you become a successful trader.
398

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012
Channel Theory I - Defining channels
Channels are heavily overlapped regions of price action that drift up or down in a chart. If the region did not drift, it would simply be BW. Channels are important because unlike BW which can only be scalped for a few ticks or a couple of points, channels do trend and can be traded for enough points to justify the risks of entering a trade. The goal is to trade channels with a fixed size stop such that the potential profit is larger than the risk taken with a high probability of success. Channels generally have the following characteristics: Multi-bar overlap: It is common for a bar to be overlapped by many following bars. For example, on the day on the right, b7 was overlapped by every bar except b1 and b19 until it finally broke out of the channel. Tails: You are likely to encounter bars with tails on both sides, regardless of color. These tails look like a trend is just about to break when watched mid-bar and then the bar will close with the opposing color, leading to poor mid-bar decisions. Never make mid-bar decisions, especially in a channel. Alternating bar colors: True channels have alternating colored bars with some dojis thrown in. Channels without opposing colored bars are Trend Channels (TC) and are actually simply trends. You can trade with-trend on the close of any small bar in TC but in a true channel you are likely to be stopped out if you use a fixed size stop. True channels that form a leg are leg channels (LC). Sometimes a channel is so wide that it looks like a sloping trading range. These are trading range channels (TRC). Unpredictable behavior: Channels may reverse (b19), break out (b30), may turn into any other type price action and are generally hard to predict. The primary goal of trading channels is to determine the following: 1. Origin: Detect PA turning into a channel and determine direction. 2. Reversal: Channel may reverse direction while remaining a channel. 3. Breakout: Channel breaks into a steep trend move. This is the most important.
399

While even simple detection of a channel is valuable because it enables you to avoid getting chopped up, detecting breakouts and sharp moves intra-channel allow you to maximize your profits if you wish to trade channels. In the coming days, we shall see how each of these may be achieved.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012
Channel Theory II - Origin
Once we have a definition of a channel, we can apply that to detect when price action displays signs of turning into a channel. In general, when the signal and entry bars are poor, i.e. overlapped and taily, I watch for channel formation. Since in normal trends signal and entry bars are clearly not overlapped (b4,5 or b6,7 or b8,9), any heavy overlap of signal and entry bars should put you on guard. In particular if the entry bar and the next two bars overlap the signal bar, you have certainly entered a channel. Therefore on this day, at b20, you have already detected a channel. Detecting channels is not complete until channel direction is also determined. This is trickier to do in real-time since what looks like a channel down simply completes a structural requirement of say three legs and then changes direction. A channel direction is canonically determined when you can draw a channel trendline. The earliest direction estimate comes from two LL and a LH or two HH and a HL. Therefore today you would confirm a downward channel at b24. Sometimes what looks like a channel can quickly turn into a triangle or expanding triangle and trap you if you enter too early. Conflicting channel trendlines (shown above) are common during the nacent phase of the channel. This is a common cause of stop-outs and finding oneself on the wrong side of the market. While the trendline from the start of the move (b13) is usually the best trendline for big picture, channels often test the trendline from channel start (b19). Never get trapped into thinking that a channel has reversed on the first attempt and trade the newly turned trendline (b33-41). These succeed rarely.
400

Once you are in a channel, you need to switch your trading to channel mode. Practices that are poor in normal trading such as fading bars become viable in channels and practices that are good in normal trading such as fixed stops and entering on signal bar breakouts lose their strength in a channel. You could simply wait for price action to break out of channel mode and then look for an entry. When a pullback no longer overlaps the signal bar (b47) you can safely take with trend entries without fear of being stopped out (b59 s, b64s).
MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012
Channel Theory III - Transitions
Once we detect price action has entered a channel, we should be able to follow its transitions just like regular price action. Anything you expect to see in a normal price action, you can also see in a channel. Channels are often wedges and most channel moves can terminate on 3 pushes. This is not very simple to read since each push could be composed of complex legs and pullbacks. For example, on the chart today, we have a W33,43,72 from b29 where each leg is made of tiny overlapped legs and extended pullbacks such as the one from b43 to b57. True channel reversals on the first attempt such as the one at b29 are rare except at a significant support or resistance (LOD in case of b29). Channels are often very tiny trends and like their bigger cousins can terminate without real reversal. For example, the sustained move beyond the TL to b33 broke the channel down and the price moved horizontally waiting to breakout. Channels may attempt to breakout into regular trends (b14-15) and often succeed in exiting channel mode. Continuation trades in channels are fairly hard and usually not worth the risk:reward. (This is still an area of research at present and we may be able to trade these in the future). Quite a bit of the issue is due to the inability to predict the slope of the channel. A steep slope such as the channel down from b18 may be worth taking the effort but an extremely shallow channel such as the one up from b29 will usually mentally exhaust the trader waiting for profit to be reached. A much better option is to attempt to predict breakouts. Correctly predicting a breakout at b67 for example, would allow us to enter precisely for the best results and avoid prior attempts. Some breakouts of channels are large and expand the day's range by more than twice the prior range.
401

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2012
Channel Theory IV - Tradable Channels
One way to characterize channel activity is to define them in terms of volatility. While normal clean trends have high inter-swing volatility and low inter-bar volatility, channels have the reverse. From a visual perspective, this means that every swing in a channel goes only a few ticks further than the prior swing (b36,40) but the pullbacks are deep enough to possibly stop you out. This means that any arbitrary entry in a channel is at a higher risk to take out a fixed stop even if it respects a bar stop. The risk of stop out is inversely proportional to the slope of the channel and directly proportional to the bar size and overlap. For example, you are at a higher risk of being stopped out of a short in the channel down from b33 than in a short in a channel down from b10. The probability of profit is higher if there were recent large trend bars. Any large trend bars (b12) that follows a channel activity (b7-11) show energy and interest and the chances of a failure of such a trend bar (b17) or a continuation (b18) leading to a trend breakout are high. Channel activity in the absence of large bars is highly susceptible to random drifts and reversals (b27-79) and chances of a break into a large trend are lower. In summary, tradable channels are steeper, have recent large trend bars and have smaller bars compared to their swings.
402

MONDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2012
Channel Theory V - 1st Channel breakouts usually fail
Channels with small trend bodies such as b21-25 obviously constitute a larger trend bar in a higher timeframe and you can often buy above any small bar with a strong close with a stop below that bar. Such channels are called Trend channels (TC) and often are the easiest to trade. In particular, a small trend bar with a strong close that touches a trendline or a microtrendline is likely to give a large trend bar after it and makes an excellent swing entry (b34). On the other hand, bars with tails on both ends such as b2-5 and b45-49 should be viewed as sloping barbwire or barb wire channels (BWC). These should be traded just like BW. The first break against the channel is likely to fail and can be taken for a second leg down (b60) unless its against support such as ema or close of prior day (b8). A second attempt to break is often successful (b15) and a HL after a successful reversal (b18,b68) are often the safest entries.
403

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2012
Channel Theory VI - Channels are forever
A channel after a strong spike such as today should be expected to last forever. While its true that often channels end up breaking (such as the move from b66-77 today), the fact of the matter is channels last forever because they constantly attempt to reverse and fail. The very uncertain nature of channels can trick you into reading all sorts of reversals if you just look at it the right way. For example, is b4-7 a trendline break followed by a test of the low at b11 and a strong reversal bar? Is b30 a 3rd push and TCL OS and therefore a W reversal? is b34-37 a FF and therefore end of the trend? is b66 a DB? Yes, they were all potential reversals and yet the market made new lows well into the close. You have to realize that every reversal signal in a channel is a trap. Traders who are used to trading counter-trend at bottom of trading ranges will find themselves buying all the way into the hole on a day like this. The trick to trading a channel such as this is to expect every reversal to fail and take the failure in the direction of the channel. So for example, while b13 would be hard to enter due to overlap, b18,26 were acceptable signals. b46 certainly was a 2L pb to ema. b77 was G2 (deep PB after strong move). The only time you can actually take a trade opposite to the channel is after a sustained break of the channel and a HL. So if the move down from b77 had given a 2 or 3L HL, you may take it for another leg up. A 1L move should never be taken since it can fail and result in a 2L move very quickly. If you missed an entry, you can often enter beyond a small trend bar as long as its not too far from the trendline or ema. For example, b19 and b29, b47, b50 are ok entries. But the best way to trade such a channel is to swing a contract from an early entry and hold it till the end of the day or an obvious reversal.
404

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2012
Predicting longer term moves
Its easier to make predictions on long term moves than to be able to successfully capitalize on it. That's not saying much because longer term predictions often are apparent only postfacto. The above chart is a monthly chart of the ES 12-12 contract and note that the last bar is an incomplete October bar (i.e. we are mid-bar). From a structural view, we have had a spike or trending channel from around Mar of 2009 to Apr 2010 and then we have a channel phase. The channel lines are shown in blue. At present, we have poked above the channel line on the third push. We should likely get at least two pushes down. Often the lower trend line (blue) is the target. The most pessimistic scenario is that the move will test the start of the channel near Jul 2010. Given that this is a monthly chart, this could mean a big drop if this happens suddenly or a prolonged horizontal to down move over the next year or so. A bit more optimistic scenario is that the magenta trendline from the start of the move acts as a support (especially on a 2L or 3L approach) and continues to push the market up. Even more optimistic scenario is that the steep purple trendline combined with ema arrests any down move and continues the move up. The most optimistic scenario is that the upper TCL will fail to contain the move up and give a rally up by an equivalent amount as the last up move. Such failures are extremely rare and only occur after a lot of violent up and down moves. Given we have three pushes in a channel and there has not been any recent violent up and down move, my guesstimate is that we will dip below the magenta line and probably also test the channel trendline. The summary here is that there is lot of good trading in store for 2012 Nov and Dec is unlikely to be a dead market. Long term investors could take puts on their positions unless they want to exit them. The proceeds of these puts can be used to add on to the same stock positions when the market bounces at long term support.
405

